There was drama at the High Court in Eldoret on Monday after the mother of a student who as brutally murdered last month attacked the suspected killer. The spectacle unfolded when Beatrice Wanyotta confronted Mustafa Idd, 31, the suspect linked to the murder of her daughter Emma Wanyotta, 26, as he was being escorted by two police officers to the court cells. BLOWS As soon as the suspect stepped out of the courtroom while being escorted by the officers, an angry Ms Wanyotta started throwing blows at him, accusing him of being behind the shocking murder of her daughter. This was after the murder case failed to proceed for the third time since Mr Idd was arrested one month ago over the student’s killing. Earlier, when the matter came up in court, High Court Judge Stephen Githinji ruled that the case will not proceed until the suspect is taken to hospital for mental assessment. “The suspect should be taken to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret for psychiatric examination before he can be brought back to take plea,” directed Judge Githinji. OFFICERS INTERVENE The furious woman held the suspect by his collar as officers tried to shield him from more attacks. Onlookers who had thronged the court premises watched the unfolding drama in disbelief. The commotion attracted the attention of the court, forcing the judge to reprimand the woman. Justice Githinji warned Ms Wanyotta that he will order for her arrest and prosecution if she repeats her action the next time she comes to court. “The court will not allow such kind of behaviour to happen here again. If you repeat the same mistake, you will find yourself in the dock,” said Githinji. The judge told the woman that there was no way he could proceed with the matter unless the suspect is taken for mental assessment to determine whether he is fit to stand trial for murder. MENTAL TESTS “As a matter of procedure, anybody charged in court with murder must first undergo mental assessment before he is allowed to take plea and the accused person is not yet off the hook,” added Justice Githinji. In her defence, the woman told the judge said she was angry because the case was dragging, adding that she wants justice for her daughter. “Whenever I come to court for my daughter’s case, the matter is always postponed ostensibly to pave the way for mental assessment of the accused person,” she said. The suspect is accused of committing the heinous act on September 30 in Moi’s Bridge town in Uasin Gishu County. The college student’s mutilated body was discovered lying in a pool of blood in a farm next to their home in the outskirt of the town. Mr Idd is also facing another case at the Kitale High Court over the brutal murder of another woman identified as Nancy Edome.  