When Mr Moses Odumbe left his home in Karabondi, Homa Bay County on November 8, to mark this year’s Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) examinations in Nairobi, his family hoped he would return home soon after the exercise. However, this has not happened. The teacher at Kogana Primary in Rachuonyo North Sub-county allegedly switched off his phones after reaching the marking centre in Nairobi. Since then, his phone is still switched off and his family is yet to trace his whereabouts. PHONE SWITCHED OFF His wife, Mrs Joyce Odumbe, told Nation that her husband arrived in Nairobi on November 9 and met a relative. “He spent the night at one of his relative’s house in Kikuyu Township before going to the KCPE exams marking centre at St George's Girls High School on November 10,” the mother of six said. Mrs Odumbe said her husband later left St George's. The teacher is said to have communicated with one of his sons, a student at Jomo Kenyatta University of Science and Agriculture. “I knew that their phones had to remain switched off during the marking exercise, so I was hesitant to communicate to him,” she said. “I sent him text messages, which he did not reply,” she added. MISSING Mrs Odumbe said she got worried when the KCPE results were released last week by Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha. “By the time the (KCPE) exam results were being released, my husband should have returned home because marking exercise had ended," she said. The teacher’s family has been looking for him in Nairobi, without success. His brother-in-law, Mr Collins Ochieng’, reported the matter to Kilimani Police Station in Nairobi while Mrs Odumbe did the same at Kendu Bay Police Station. She blamed the Kenya National Examination Council (Knec) for not alerting her that her husband was missing from the marking centre. She said that Knec should have notified her that her husband was not at the marking centre. “If he signed in on the first day, but failed to return to the marking centre, Knec should have notified us that he was missing,” she said.  