Olympic marathon champion and world marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge will next week add another feather in his cap. Just days after being named the 2019 World Athletics Male Athlete of the Year, the 35-year-old runner will now get an honorary doctoral degree. On Wednesday, Laikipia University in an ad in the Daily Nation, said it will confer a honorary Doctor of Science degree to Kipchoge during its seventh graduation ceremony. The ceremony will take place on Friday, December 6, 2019 at the university’s main campus. The university said the award is meant to honour Kipchoge’s “tremendous contributions in the realm of sports”. HONORIS CAUSA “Pursuant of Laikipia University Charter, 2013 Section III, (21) (4) (k) on the conferment of honorary degrees and upon recommendation of the university senate and approval therefore by the Laikipia University council, the university has the pleasure of to present Mr Eliud Kipchoge to Kenyans and the international community for the award of Doctor of Science (Honoris Causa) during the 7th graduation ceremony,” Laikipia University said. Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Academic Research and Student Affairs Wanjiku Chiuri said that the university settled on Kipchoge after he recommended by the university’s Senate and approved by the Laikipia University Council. CENTRE OF EXCELLENCE “We want to become the centre of excellence in sport and arts as we move into the new curriculum. This is the reason why we settled on him,” said Prof Chiuri. Prof Chiuri said that the university senate recognised Kipchoge’s contributions in the field of sports. She noted that this is the first time that the university is awarding a top sports personality with an honorary degree. EGH Last month, Kichoge was awarded the Elder of the Order of the Golden Heart of Kenya (EGH) by President Uhuru Kenyatta during the 10th Mashujaa Day celebrations. EGH is the highest honour that can be awarded to a civilian. Kipchoge recently became the first person to run the 42-kilomtre marathon race in under two hours. He timed an astonishing 1:59:40 in Vienna, Austria, in the INEOS 1:59 Challenge aimed at proving that no human is limited.  Additional reporting by Steve Njuguna  