Kenya Sevens are through to the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games. It’s Oscar Dennis, who scored two of Kenya’s five tries to see them crush Uganda Cranes 31-0 at the Bosman Stadium to not only qualify for the Olympics but also recapture the Africa Cup title. Kenya, who led 14-0 at the break, touched down five tries and three conversions for their second Olympic Summer Games after their appearance at Rio 2016 where rugby returned after 92 years.   Zimbabwe edged out Madagascar 24-7 to claim bronze in the play-off. Zimbabwe, who were the Africa defending champions, will now team up with Uganda at the Repechage in June next year for another opportunity to qualify for the Tokyo Olympics. Kenya Sevens now join automatic qualifiers South Africa for the Olympics. Blitzebokke qualified after they finished in top four during the 2018/19 World Rugby Series. The top four teams upon the completion of the 2018/19 World Rugby Series were guaranteed a place at the Olympics hence avoiding the continental and Repechage qualifiers. Others are Fiji, who are the 2016 Rio Olympics champions, United States and New Zealand. Skipper Andrew Amonde opened the assault for Kenya after he cashed in on a penalty at the 22 metre zone before slicing through the middle to land. Daniel Taabu would convert before finished off a thrilling exchange between Vincent Onyala and Johnstone Olindi with a second try. Taabu added the extras for a 14-0 lead at the drinks. Another beautiful interchange of passes between Amonde and his deputy Jeff Oluoch resulted in the third try by Oluoch with Taabu curling over the conversion for a 21-0 lead. Substitutes Oscar Dennis and Billy Odhiambo were a joy to watch. Odhiambo, who was making a return to Kenya Sevens after a season, weaved through the middle before he offloaded to Dennis from a tackle to score. Dennis claimed a turnover in Uganda’s zone to complete his brace of tries for the victory. Kenya Sevens join their women’s team Kenya Lionesses for the Tokyo Summer Games. It’s Alvin Otieno, who scored a brace of tries as Kenya Sevens crushed Madagascar 40-14 in the semi-finals to set up Uganda again. Kenya, who had trailed Madagascar twice before tying the duel 14-14 at the break, put up a brilliant second half display to dispatch the Indian ocean islanders. Uganda, who Kenya had beaten 24-7 in their last Pool “B” match early Saturday, edged out Zimbabwe 21-5 for the re-match final with Kenya. Nelson Oyoo, Vincent Onyala, Daniel Taabu and Bush Mwale scored Kenya’s other tries as Taabu and Johnstone Olindi converted two tries each against Madagascar. Onyala managed one conversion.    