Tension is high in Kisauni and Nyali in Mombasa following renewed attacks by machete-wielding gangs that left 10 people injured on Sunday. The victims suffered deep cuts on their heads, hands, legs and other parts of their bodies. One of the victims had his leg chopped off by the criminals, according to eyewitnesses. “We had to put the leg in a carton as we carried the victim to the hospital after the morning attack,” said Mr Henry Kahindi, a resident. The victims were treated at the Coast General Hospital with a majority being reported to be in stable condition. 86 BATTALION A new gang christened “86 Battalion” is believed to be behind the deadly attacks that have left the residents living in fear. Andrew Murithi, who was robbed an unknown amount of money and his phone, is among those who are nursing their injuries at the Coast General Hospital. “They cut my leg and slashed me on the head. I am in a lot of pain, they were so many," said Mr Murithi from his hospital bed. Another victim, Naomi Ndalu, said she was attacked at around 5.30am as she headed to Kongowea market. She suffered head injuries and was robbed of her mobile phone. Mr James Mutinda, who sustained injuries on his left hand, also lost his phone. Also injured were Pharsly Kaingu and Joseph Wambugu. ATTACKS Others victims included Robert Ochieng, Juma Hamisi, Caleb Musya, Jacob Okello and Hassan Mwero. Following the attacks, a joint manhunt for the criminals was conducted by officers from the Kisauni and Nyali sub-counties. The officers traced the criminals to their hideout in Mwandoni where a shootout ensued as the criminals fled. In a statement, Mombasa County Commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo said six thugs are believed to have escaped with gun wounds. “They were caught sharing the loot. The officers ordered them to surrender but they advanced towards the officers. The officers fired at them and it is suspected that several of them escaped with gunshot wounds,” said Mr Kitiyo. Identification cards belonging to some of victims were recovered at the hideout. Other items recovered included National Hospital Insurance Fund and ATM cards. “Four pangas and a metal bar were also recovered. A manhunt for the thugs is still ongoing,” added Mr Kitiyo.  