The mother of a girl who was brought up with one of the identical twins from Kakamega took away her daughter on Friday morning sparking a disagreement. Drama unfolded when Mrs Angelina Omina, who was accompanied by police officers, took away her daughter, Mevis Imbaya, as relatives of the identical twins were preparing to meet Governor Wycliffe Oparanya together with the girls. ROW Mrs Omina accused the family of the twins of piling pressure on her daughter to continue living with Mrs Rosemary Onyango, the mother of the twins, at their home in Fufural, Likuyani Sub-County. In the ensuing commotion, a relative of the identical twins Mr Shem Abuti was shoved and roughed up when he tried to stop police officers from handing over Mevis to her mother. Mr Abuti said the two families had planned to visit Mr Oparanya when the disagreement erupted. “The girls have expressed the wish to continue staying together after the release of the DNA results but we read mischief in the decision by the mother of Imbaya to forcefully take away her daughter,” said Mr Abuti. DNA TEST Kakamega County Police Commander Mr Bernard Muli said the DNA results had settled the issue of the parentage of the girls and the two families need to agree on the way forward. “This matter settled after the DNA results were released and clearly showed who were the parents of the identical twins and the other girl were,” said Mr Muli.   The tests, conducted by Lancet Kenya and released last Saturday, showed that Sharon Mathius and Melon Lutenyo are biological twins. The two shared identical DNA profiles, with 23 allelic loci tested showing 100 per cent perfect match. "Ms Rosemary Khaveleli Onyango could not be excluded as the biological mother of the twins who have compatible obligatory maternal allelic profile with a 99.999 per cent probability," the report stated. MEVIS The report also excluded Ms Onyango from being the biological mother of Mevis Imbaya but revealed that the girl exhibited a compatible obligatory maternal and paternal allelic profile with those of Ms Angeline Omina and Mr Wilson Lutah Maruti respectively. The probability of Mevis being Ms Omina's daughter was 99.999 per cent, the test revealed. Sharon and Melon met in April 2018 on social media. At first, they mistook each other for online identity frauds. While browsing, Sharon came across a Facebook suggestion of ‘people you may know’ it was there that she noticed a profile that looked like hers. She sent Melon a ‘friend request’. No sooner had Melon ‘accepted’, the request, the two started engaging in a war of words with each of them questioning the authenticity of the other’s online profile.  