Deputy President William Ruto traversed Kisii and Nyamira counties Friday with the promise that he will continue reaching out to the people at the grassroots. But conspicuously missing was Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i, who hails from the region and has been a permanent fixture whenever Mr Ruto’s boss, President Uhuru Kenyatta, visits. Also absent were governors James Ongwae (Kisii), John Nyagarama (Nyamira), County Commissioner Godfrey Kigochi and his Nyamira counterpart Amos Mariba. Dr Matiang’i has had frequent run-ins with Mr Ruto, especially after President Kenyatta elevated him to chairman of a Cabinet sub-committee to supervise government projects in what appeared like usurping the DP’s role as the principal assistant to the President. DEVELOPMENT The absence of high-ranking provincial administrators has become a common feature in Mr Ruto’s frequent tours across the country unlike during President Kenyatta’s first term when they routinely accompanied him in his various engagements. Nyamira County Secretary Eric Onchana however explained that Mr Nyagarama would meet Mr Ruto in Narok during Madaraka Day celebrations today. The DP did not comment on the matter throughout his tour, instead maintaining that his interest is to serve Kenyans. “Kenyans want us to unite and direct all our plans and vision towards development,” said the DP. “I did not come to politick here, that is for another day.” FUNDRAISING He said that leaders who mind about development will change Nyamira, not cheap rhetoric. Mr Ruto launched various development projects and presided over fundraisers. He laid a foundation stone for Nyagesa Teacher’s Training College, opened the West Mugirango CDF office, led fundraisers at St Joseph Nyamira Catholic Church, Nyamagwa Girls Secondary School and SDA churches in Borabu constituency. MPs Vincent Kemosi (West Mugirango), Ben Momanyi (Borabu), Shadrack Mose (Kitutu Masaba), Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango) and Nyamira Woman Rep Jerusha Momanyi accompanied him.  