A section of Luhya leaders has vowed to unite the community ahead of 2022 General Election. Sharing a platform for the first time since August last year, Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi, his Ford-Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula and Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa on Saturday stressed on the need for unity of purpose by the community. This, they said, would attract support from other communities for the country’s top seat. WORK TOGETHER Speaking in Lugulu village in Butula sub-county where they attended the burial of former councillor George Kwena, Mr Mudavadi said the presence of the two leaders was a confirmation of their willingness to walk together for the sake of the region. “From today hence forth, we will not entertain journeys aimed at dividing our people. We are going to be one and this is the solidarity we assure you,” said Mudavadi. He said time was ripe for ‘Mulembe nation’ to flex its muscles for the presidency. “This year, the country celebrated its 56th Madaraka Day having been served by only four presidents from two communities. It’s only fair that the two ruling communities realise that there are also others that can produce presidents and this doesn’t mean we are being ethnic but just saying let us share Kenya equally,” added Mudavadi. UNITY The Bungoma Senator said it was time for other communities to support a Luhya candidature for presidency, but cautioned that the same support will only be attractive if leaders from the community are united. “It’s not by accident that we all here. Our colleagues from Central Kenya have always pulled together. I am ready to support my brother here Musalia and vice versa to ensure that we have a realistic chance,” said Mr Wetang’ula. CS Wamalwa said the journey towards the elusive unity started in August last year during his brother Kijana Wamalwa’s memorial service in Kitale. WALK TOGETHER “Last year, in Kitale you saw us together. In December while in Mbale, Vihiga County, you saw us together and today again we are here in Busia. I want to assure you that we will continue to walk together and intensify efforts to bring home those who have lost ‘network’,” said the CS. He laughed off those saying that they are divided. “I pity those moving around saying we won’t unite. The region is going to be a game changer when political bell rings. We will shock those banking on our divisions, poverty, buy leaders and even votes,” he stated.  