Narc-Kenya leader Martha Karua has criticised Kirinyaga leaders over the crisis facing the county's health sector. She said the sector was on its knees yet local politicians were doing nothing about it. "Health services have been paralysed in all hospitals but the leaders are quiet," Ms Karua told mourners at Kiamwathi Anglican Church in Gichugu constituency during a funeral service of Ms Wanjiku Kaara. SUFFERING She noted that the residents were suffering after all the health workers laid down their tools to protest over poor working conditions. "The leaders have failed the residents who voted for them in the last elections, residents should be careful when electing the leaders," she said. Ms Karua said it was unfortunate that the leaders had not even attempted to reach out the striking health workers for dialogue to end the standoff. She said leaders who cannot the resident’s problems have no business to lead. "If you are an elected leader you should work hard for the people but not to idle around doing nothing," she remarked. 1,000 WORKERS The more than 1,000 workers, who boycotted work, accused Governor Anne Waiguru of failing to meet their demands. For nearly three weeks now, the residents have been suffering due to lack of medics to treat them. Some of the patients seek treatment at the neighbouring Embu County. The county government has started recruiting new health workers on a two-month contract after advertising the positions of the striking employees. PATHETIC STATE The workers complained of the pathetic state of Kerugoya Hospital and other health facilities in the region. They complained that four of their colleagues had contracted Hepatitis B and diarrhoea for working in unhygienic conditions. The workers are also demanding promotion. They also want four doctors who are pursuing Masters degrees be paid their ten-month salary arrears. They also want all the 346 casual workers who were sacked in a bid to cut the ballooning wage bill reinstated unconditionally.  