It is 50 years since man entered the lunar space, stepped and slept on the moon. The man who claimed this connubial space on July 20, 1969, Neil Armstrong, described it as a small step for (a) man and a giant leap for mankind. What should interest cultural scholars about this historical moment is that the Americans designed it as a demonstration of their masculine hegemony. It came complete with psychosexual ramifications. We can only unravel the true meaning of the lunar landing by attempting an interpretation of the folklore around it. NATIONAL MOMENT Let us first look at the pomp and circumstance of the event. It was by all means an earth-shattering and exhilarating national moment for the Americans. Their collective national psyche had to navigate through seismic paroxysms of orgasmic propositions. It was not just the thrill of technological breakthrough, but a consolidation of American power and pride over the Soviet Union. We should recall that it was during the Cold War era and the race for supremacy between the United States and the Soviet Union was at its peak. The lunar landing meant that the US had beaten the Soviet Union to the prize and hit the great spot. The rivalry of who would be the first to savour the pleasures of the universe between the earth and the sun had come to a dramatic end. BLANK CHEQUE That is precisely why the first lunar landing has inspired many writers and film-makers over the years who have produced works about it. In recent weeks, the BBC has produced a series of programmes called 13 Minutes to the Moon. The series looks at the events, the planning and the execution of the project. It examines anxieties, fears and losses in the entire project. More so it brings to us the tribulations of those charged with the responsibility of delivering this project for which Congress had given a blank cheque. The BBC series, however, does not capture the psychological, cultural and subliminal probabilities of the first lunar landing and its hidden meaning to the masculine mind. It is my view that the psychological and cultural ramifications of the project should open up new possibilities of appreciating the masculine mind, its fears and anxieties. I am inspired by the great American folklorist Alan Dundes, who taught me that our business is to make sense of what may appear nonsense, find rationale for the irrational and seek to make the unconscious conscious. SOCIAL SCIENTIST It is, therefore, possible to say that social scientists need to always try to find connections in human events and actions and closely relate them to our unconscious human longings. Scientific discoveries respond to man’s curiosity, challenges, dreams, fears, desires and hopes. Without scientific explanations, we create myths that, in most cases, explain masculine anxieties. The race began with President John F. Kennedy’s declaration in 1961 that the decade would see Americans land on the moon. This declaration came out of the realisation that the Soviet Union was, by then, ahead of the United States in space exploration. But why did the Americans direct lots of energy on reaching the moon and nowhere else? The fascination with the moon is, but preoccupation of masculine minds. Man has always associated the moon with many things feminine. In some cultures, the moon is seen as having a supernatural relationship with all women. This is more so in regard to menstrual cycles. It is in this respect that we talk of “going to the moon” in reference to menstruation. WITCHCRAFT This is the period when man fears women most. To counter this fear, men have created all manner of myth that associate menstruation with grime and witchcraft. A worldwide misogynistic myth has it that people are likely to manifest strange behaviour during the full moon. The mere fact that the menstrual cycle is associated with the full moon makes the myth-maker believe that women are mad at certain times of the month. The fear of women is what makes man create myths. Man, over the years, associates women’s menstruation with magical powers. It is believed that it is these powers that make them influence men in detrimental ways. To counter this, man creates taboos to control women. Many other myths all over the world also view the moon as a female goddess while the sun is perceived as a male god. The moon is seen as weak and the ruler of the dark nights and, therefore, evil while the sun is perceived as strong and as a ruler of daytime. But something primordial still attracts man to the very object of his fear. This is perhaps why Edwin “Buzz” Aldrin, who was with Neil Armstrong, describes the moon as “Beautiful, beautiful. Magnificent desolation”. He uttered these words as he stepped on the surface of the moon. ORACLES Let us look at the names that the Americans gave to the vehicle to the moon. They called it Apollo. Those who know Greek mythology will recall that Apollo was the god of prophesy and oracles, music poetry and a protector of the young. Did the Americans want to see them in this light? Apollo, the god, is depicted in mythology as a handsome bearded youth. He has long hair and among his totems is an arrow and bow. Now, these are significant phallic symbols. There are many idioms and sayings associated with the moon that would make us view lunar landing as an intimate affair. We say “I am over the moon” when we are very happy and excited. But most interestingly, we say “I love you to the moon and back” when expressing deep romantic emotions. After marriage, we talk of going for a “honeymoon”. This is the time when the marriage should be consummated even when we know that the two had long been intimate. But there is also a dark side of the masculine mind that associates the moon and women with diseases. SEXUAL POTENCY That is why venereal diseases go by the name “women’s disease”. Americans did not miss to demonstrate this. After landing back on earth, Neil Armstrong and his colleague were quarantined for 21 days, being checked if they contracted any diseases from their copulation with the goddess of love. The American module used to land on the moon was christened Eagle. That is why, on landing on the moon, Armstrong radioed back to earth and said: “The Eagle has landed.” Why Eagle? The symbolism cannot escape us. The eagle in the Bible has the symbolism of renewal. It soars far to the “end zones”. It stands for pride, courage, knowledge, determination and sexual potency, but not for you, but the American people. The first lunar landing was simply an American display of masculine power and unconscious coitus meant to satisfy virile longings. Egara Kabaji is a professor of literary communication at Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology and president of the Creative Writers Association of Kenya. egarakabaji@gmail.com  