Residents of Moi Girls slums in Chuka town, Tharaka-Nithi County are demanding justice for a woman who was reportedly electrocuted in a bar on Monday night after she was accused of stealing a mobile phone. People who witnessed the 10pm incident told journalists that the 24-year-old woman only identified as Mercy, was stripped naked, beaten up and dragged out of a bar known as Mara's Pub, then pushed onto an iron sheet roof which was connected to a live electric wire. She died instantly. ELECTRICITY The eyewitness, who sought anonymity for fear of victimisation, said a bar maid identified as Victoria Makena, ordered for the switching on of electricity before Mercy was pushed from the stairs of the bar to the roof. They said after realising that the woman had died and the people who had gathered there were threatening to lynch her, Ms Makena rushed to Chuka Police Station where she reported the incident. She allegedly told the police that Mercy fell on the roof while escaping after stealing a phone. “We witnessed the bar maid and some other customers beat up Mercy, drag her out of the bar and push her to the roof connected to electricity,” said one of the locals.   'ACCIDENTAL FALL' Speaking to journalists on the incident, Chuka OCPD Joseph Kavoo said Ms Makena visited the station at around midnight and reported that Mercy accidentally fell on the roof while escaping after stealing a mobile phone from one of her customers. He said Mercy was picked by the county rescue team and rushed to Chuka County Referral Hospital where she was pronounced dead. Later, police visited the crime scene. Mr Kavoo said investigations had started and urged anyone with information that could be crucial to the case to visit the station. NOT PUSHED But the OCPD denied that Mercy was pushed by someone onto the electrified roofing. Residents of the slums have threatened to hold demonstrations to the police station to demand the arrest of the suspects. They said due to rampant thefts in the area where thieves break through roofs, many business people have connected their houses with electricity in a bid to keep of robbers. Last week, a woman was gang-raped and left unconscious and naked in a thicket next to the slums.  