Algiers Algeria's top businessman Ali Haddad, a key supporter of ousted president Abdelaziz Bouteflika, was jailed for six months on Monday for holding two passports, in the first conviction in a string of corruption probes. The business tycoon was arrested in late March on the border with Tunisia in possession of two passports and undeclared currency, days before Bouteflika resigned in the face of mass protests. Haddad, who owns Algeria's largest private construction company, is the first high-profile figure with ties to Bouteflika to be jailed since the president stepped down on April 2 after two decades in power. BUSINESS EMPIRE He was found guilty of the "unjustified procurement of administrative documents" and also fined 50,000 dinars (USD420), state television reported. Described by Forbes as one of Algeria's wealthiest entrepreneurs, Haddad is widely perceived to have used his links to Bouteflika to build his business empire. The businessman, a key election campaign funder for Bouteflika, had denied breaking the law and said he obtained his second passport legally after seeking an interview with then prime minister Abdelmalek Sellal. The ex-premier and Haddad are among many businessmen and former politicians caught up in a separate anti-corruption investigation launched since the president stepped down. Earlier this month Haddad's lawyer, Khaled Bourayou, decried a "political trial" and told journalists the passport case had no legal basis. LOWER SENTENCE The sentence is significantly lower than the 18 months term and fine of 100,000 dinars requested by the prosecutor. Hassane Boualem, then director of titles and secure documents at the interior ministry, was given a two-month suspended sentence and fined 20,000 dinars for issuing Haddad's second passport in 2016. He told the court he was following the orders of his superiors – interior ministry head Hocine Mazouz, Sellal and Algeria's current premier Noureddine Bedoui – who were not investigated over the affair. Last week, a judge placed in detention two former prime ministers, Sellal as well as Ahmed Ouyahia, who served four terms as premier. RELEASED An investigating magistrate on Sunday conditionally released former finance minister Karim Djoudi as part of the corruption probes. Karim Djoudi, finance minister between 2007 and 2014, appeared before the supreme court's magistrate in connection with the disappearance of public funds and abuse of office. The supreme court is the only judicial body with jurisdiction over offences committed in public office by government members, local officials and high magistrates. Former transport minister Amar Tou was also conditionally released after appearing before the investigating magistrate. Djoudi and Tou are among 12 former Algerian officials subject to preliminary probes for alleged criminal offences. DETAINED Former trade minister Amara Benyounes has been detained in El Harrach prison, in an eastern suburb of Algiers, and former public works minister Abdelghani Zaalane has been conditionally released. Army chief General Gaid Salah, the key powerbroker in post-Bouteflika Algeria, vowed Monday that no one would be spared from the corruption probes. The judiciary must "bring to justice all the corrupt regardless of their function or their social rank", he said. "The fight against corruption knows no limit and no exception will be made to anyone... it's time to settle accounts," Salah said, adding it was "time to clean up our country". The graft probes have also seen a dozen Bouteflika-linked businessmen placed in preventative detention. Demonstrations have continued since the ailing head of state stepped down, as protesters demand the fall of regime insiders and the establishment of independent institutions.  