Nandi County Police Commander Thomas Ngeiywo has been transferred to the police headquarters in Nairobi, a week after officers failed to take action against Governor Stephen Sang when he invaded a tea estate linked to former minister Henry Kosgey. Mr Ngeiywo was said to have been recalled to Nairobi last week before his replacement was confirmed on Tuesday. He will be replaced by Mr Samuel ole Kine who had been redeployed from Trans Nzoia to the headquarters in changes effected earlier this year. Mr Kine served in similar position before he was transferred. SUMMONED Security officials in Nandi confirmed that the police commander had been summoned to Vigilance House last week following the incident. Mr Ngeiywo, who moved to the county from Narok in the changes, has been transferred following a tough warning by Interior Cabinet Fred Matiang’i to politicians to desist from taking the law into their hands, saying they will not be spared for perpetrating lawlessness. The governor led hundreds of residents on June 7 and 8 to invade Kibwari Tea Estate in Nandi Hills where they uprooted dozens of tea bushes on a disputed section. Officers posted to the estate failed to take any action against the governor. ARRESTED The governor was later on June 10 arrested before he was charged before Kisumu Senior Resident Magistrate Beryl Omollo for malicious damage to property, incitement to violence and abuse of office. He denied the charges and was released on a Sh1 million bond or alternative Sh500,000 cash bail. The case will be heard in September. RECLAIM LAND The governor has promised to continue to push for the reclamation of land he says belongs to the public but is in the hands of individuals and private companies. He said his administration will not operate like an “animal farm” where a clique of people is favoured, adding that those who have perpetuated impunity must be ready to face the consequences. “I want to serve a notice to all those who have perpetuated this impunity and trampled on the poor that it shall not be business as usual. And if to defend the rights of the poor against masters of impunity will take me to court, that is the road I am very much prepared to travel the whole hog,” said Mr Sang.  