Opposition leader Raila Odinga got the nod of a crucial party organ this weekend to start shopping for potential partners ahead of the 2022 polls as ODM embarks on a massive exercise to revamp itself at the grass roots. On Saturday, deputy party leader and Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya told the Sunday Nation that effectively, the party will quietly begin reaching out to possible allies with whom they would pull in the same direction. REFERENDUM He said this is important for two reasons; first in the event of a referendum to change the constitution and later on at the presidential ballot. “The choice of partners has been our undoing in the last two presidential elections. Guided by our party leader, we are keen to do it differently this time. I can assure you it will be the winning team, we will form the next government,” he said. ODM’s National Executive Council (NEC) met in Nakuru for two days, ending Friday to review its systems and processes amid growing internal concern that it was no longer responsive to needs of its members. “Going forward, we will have a board to oversight the secretariat, not because they have not done well. The aim is to make the party more vibrant as we head to the next elections,” chairman John Mbadi said. REVAMPING PARTY While the former prime minister insists that the next elections are not his concern now, the move towards revamping the party and a raft of measures adopted by NEC on Friday gives a completely different picture. Mr Odinga’s close allies like Siaya Senator James Orengo strongly hold that he should have another stab at the presidency in the next General Election. “ODM is going for political power, and when we are holding these meetings, our eyes are set on 2022. The contestation for power is going to come from a formation with ODM in it and a formation of Jubilee where Uhuru Kenyatta is playing a role,” Mr Orengo said. Immediately and in damage control mode, Mr Mbadi came out to deny the claims. Such a decision may see some party loyalists like Mombasa governor Hassan Joho and Mr Oparanya, who have expressed interest in State House race, either shelve the ambition or jump ship to try through other parties. The only time ODM went it alone was in 2007 when it failed to clinch the top seat by a whisker. In 2013, the party teamed up with Wiper and Ford Kenya. In 2017 and other than the two parties, ANC joined the fray to drum up support for Mr Odinga. ALLIANCES Mergers or coalitions have become a commonplace in the country’s politics with experts agreeing that it is almost impossible to win presidency without alliances. Mr Odinga is rolling out a grand plan he hopes will arrest the dwindling fortunes of a party that once had the majority of elected representatives in the country but has been diminishing in influence after the 2007 polls. The merger of about 12 parties supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta’s second term bid in the last elections resulted in Jubilee Party, a behemoth that enjoys numerical strength in the bicameral parliament as well as county assemblies, dwarfing Mr Odinga’s party in the process. To be fair to Orange party, it is one of the few ones that have lasted for more than a decade and still remains relevant. Kanu, the independence party is alive though is largely a shell of its former self. The NEC has made several resolutions expected to have casualties, especially at the party’s secretariat, its National Elections Board (NEB) and the Disciplinary Committee. DEFEATS Smarting from embarrassing defeats in its strongholds in recent by-elections in Ugenya and Embakasi South in April, the ODM NEC deliberated on recommendations contained in the Report on the Task Force on Audit of the Party Performance over the past few elections chaired by Prof Catherine Mumma. The party now seeks to address the thorny primaries that have always left it grappling with internal rebellion that in the past elections has led to massive defections ahead of elections leading to voter apathy. Among others, the official opposition party resolved to reorganise its elections board to enhance its capacity to deliver credible elections. In addition, the party’s NEC shall now be required to ratify final party lists for nominated MCAs and MPs and submit it to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, (IEBC) to ensure integrity. SH4.1 BILLION The party that is now basking in glory after securing Sh4.1 billion political parties’ cash it won after a protracted court battle has also with immediate effect rolled out a massive countrywide member-recruitment drive that is expected to end by December 31, as it moves to bolster its political base ahead of 2022. ODM secretary-general Edwin Sifuna announced that the recruitment exercise whose details will be communicated soon comes hot on the heels of forthcoming grass roots elections. To address thorny issues in party primaries and nominations, Mr Sifuna said the NEC resolved that the party shall employ universal suffrage, electoral colleges, consensus and direct ticket backed by scientific process as the four ways of identifying candidates at each election, as the circumstances in each region may demand. He explained that the National Elections Board shall be reorganised and ‘will be better resourced’ to enhance its capacity to deliver free, fair and credible party elections. PARTISAN The NEB chaired by Judith Pareno has always been on the receiving end from aspirants many whom have constantly accused it of being partisan. Now, Ms Pareno and her team may be kicked out in a bid to ensure confidence among members and contestants. Mr Sifuna said there shall be ‘addition and substitution of members, reorganisation and resourcing may be witnessed in the coming days.’ “On party lists, given previous experience, the final list for special elect MCAs and MPs once generated shall be submitted to the NEC for ratification. The NEC shall be responsible for final submission of the lists to the IEBC to ensure the integrity of the process,” said the secretary-general. “We have adopted a new structure for the secretariat with five directorates, so the old one is done with. The new structure creates new roles especially in the directorate of research, policy and communications,” the SG went on. The party is equally keen on instilling discipline. On Friday, it unanimously resolved to replace Turkana Governor Josephat Nanok, who was accused of abdicating his responsibilities as the vice-chairman of the party. UNION His position went to Loima MP Jeremiah Lomorukai after ratification by the governing council. The move is also to checkmate Mr Nanok in the larger Turkana region. Despite all the public denials of a possible union, sources closer with the leading politicians in the country say as the clock ticks towards a referendum, there were plans to have Jubilee, ODM, Kanu, ANC and Wiper among other parties join hands. “The alliance shall be cemented during the referendum campaigns and Kenyans could witness the rebirth of a larger political house just as ODM was born after the 2005 referendum,” a source within Jubilee said. Kanu secretary-general Nick Salat said the idea of a coalition was not far-fetched.  