Deputy President William Ruto and his allies on Sunday continued with their tours across the country, days after President Uhuru Kenyatta admonished the Tangatanga team for focusing on early campaigns at the expense of development. Dr Ruto — who was in Vihiga as he sought to penetrate into his possible 2022 presidential election rival Musalia Mudavadi’s home turf — called for an end to divisive politics. The DP, who was accompanied by nine MPs and a governor, spoke as 10 opposition legislators asked President Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga to ignore politicians opposed to their ‘handshake’. Senate Minority Leader James Orengo and Ruaraka MP Tom Kajwang accused Dr Ruto’s allies of derailing the Big Four agenda through sustained attacks on the President. REFERENDUM Other leaders who spoke at Nomiya Church of Peace included Olago Aluoch, Jared Okello, Shakeel Shabbir, Millie Odhiambo, Ong’ondo Were, Peter Masara, Gideon Ochanda, Eve Obara, Martin Owino and Rozah Buyu. The MPs continued with their call for a referendum for expansion of the executive for inclusivity in government. Mr Orengo told Jubilee leaders to stop blaming Mr Odinga for the cracks in their party. “We (ODM) have our strategies and a well-known leadership structure, so they should sort their differences without involving us. But if they are disintegrating, we cannot stop clapping,” he said. In Vihiga, Dr Ruto asked leaders not to derail the country’s transformation. Addressing the African Divine Church congregation on Sunday in Hamisi, Dr Ruto said leaders have a debt with the people. UNDERMINE PRESIDENT “We will all be appraised when our terms come to an end. We will have to share with the people what we did for them during our tenure,” said the Deputy President. He was accompanied by Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo, MPs Benjamin Washiali, Charles Gimose, Samuel Gachobe, Patrick Wainaina, James Gichuhi, Kweya Thuku, George Murugara, Malili Injendi and Mwambu Mabonga. Former Governor Moses Akaranga and former Senator Boni Khalwale were also present. Dr Ruto cautioned politicians against gambling with the lives of Kenyans, observing that “our work cannot be measured by empty words”. We do not want to be taken back to the era of the politics of tribalism and division. In Jubilee, we do not tolerate lies; when we say it, we mean it because we are a responsible leadership,” he added. The MPs who flanked the DP said they would not bow down to pressure from a section of politicians out to frustrate the Jubilee development. UNITY “As Jubilee strives to bring this country together, there are those among us who want to tear apart our fabric of unity,” Mr Mabonga said. In Nyeri, Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri warned Mt Kenya leaders against undermining President Kenyatta’s authority. Speaking in Mukurwe-ini, the CS said: “We only have one leader in Mt Kenya leader who is President Kenyatta … if we do not unite, we will lose out.” Rushdie Oudia, Victor Otieno, Derick Luvega and Grace Gitau and Benson Amadala  