A Nairobi court on Thursday set free businessman Paul Kobia on Sh100,000 cash bail in a case in which he is accused alongside 13 others of obtaining money by false pretence. Magistrate Tobiko Sinkiyan said there was no reason for police to keep holding the suspects as they complete investigations. The other 13 suspects were each released on a personal bond of Sh100,000. Mr Kobia was arrested on Wednesday alongside Simon Wanaina, Paul Gichuhi, Benjamin Mutisya, Patrick Mweu, Samson Kibet, Faith Kioko and Joyce Wenani. Others are Miriam Nyambura, Consolata Thirindi, James Masai, Doreen Kathambi, Tanya Yvonne Goes and Gabriel Ndururi Murage. Court heard that the 14 conned one Italiana Antonio Cianci who is a director of a Dubai-based company known as Iron & Steel DMCC that deals with buying and selling of gold. The suspects allegedly lured Mr Cianci to a house on Riverside Drive while claiming that was where pure gold was available for sale. The house is believed to be Mr Kobia’s residence where the deal was done on October 7, 2018. Mr Cianci lost the said monies after being duped that he had bought genuine gold worth $1198,000. Court was told that the police raided Mr Kobia’s residence following a tip-off where all the 14 suspects were arrested as well as several exhibits recovered. It was Mr Kobia, the court was told, who dealt with Mr Cianci during the transaction with the help of other individuals who are considered to be part of his team but are yet to be arrested. Police said Mr Kobia has been linked to many more fraudulent activities relating to fake gold and that there are many complainants coming up with several allegations as victims of scams from foreign countries. Police also claimed the suspects would interfere with investigations if released, hurting the whole case. “Investigation is complex, diverse and we are looking at transnational organised crime where some of his accomplices could be in the neighbouring countries and the offences committed cuts across international borders,” State lawyers told the court.  