Starehe member of Parliament Charles Njagua, alias Jaguar, was arrested outside Parliament in Nairobi on Wednesday amid a storm over remarks he issued regarding foreign traders in Nairobi. It was not immediately clear why the Jubilee Party lawmaker was apprehended but it is suspected that police acted on claims that his remarks in Kamukunji on Monday were xenophobic. Mr Njagua's dramatic arrest took place at about 12.45pm as he walked out of Parliament Buildings to his constituency office at Continental House. HANDCUFFS The arrest was by police officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, who arrived at around 10am in unmarked navy blue and Green Subaru cars. They laid siege on Harambee Avenue and Parliament Road, just outside the two exits from Parliament. As the legislator walked out, nearly 10 officers in plain clothes accosted him and asked  him to accompany them to the DCI headquarters along Kiambu Road. One pulled out handcuffs but the MP successfully pleaded against being bound. He was then bundled into a navy-blue Subaru with South Sudan registration numbers and driven away, the officers not stating why they made the move. THE REMARKS The statement Mr Njagua issued in Kamukunji, where he went with Butere MP Tindi Mwale, went viral on social media. Among the foreign nationals he named were Pakistanis, whom he alleged had taken over the automobile business, the Chinese, Tanzanians and Ugandans, some of whom are found in downtown Nairobi. The MP's utterances came hot on the heels of the deportation of Chinese nationals found selling second-hand clothes in Nairobi’s Gikomba market. Mr Njagua said, “We are not talking about six Chinese nationals. We are talking of hundreds of foreigners who work here (Kenya). I give the government 24 hours to evict these foreigners lest I, being a representative of this area, go into their shops, beat them and send them all the way to the airport." While adding that foreigners now harass Kenyans in their own country, he said, “Enough is enough. Either the governments acts as soon as possible or we take the law into our own hands.” “There are hundreds of foreigners doing the hawking business here ... we shall not accept to be enslaved by foreigners in our own country,” he also said. ACTIONS The Tanzanian government has since summoned Kenyan High Commissioner to Dar es Salaam Dan Kazungu to explain the threats. Tanzania’s Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said President John Magufuli's government took the remarks seriously. In addition, Tanzania’s Speaker of Parliament Job Ndugai ordered his government to issue a statement on the safety of Tanzanians in Kenya. In response, the Kenyan government distanced itself from Mr Njagua’s comments and assured the safety of foreigners who wish to invest in the country.  