Judicial Service Commission will from Monday morning commence the recruitment of 11 judges of the Court of Appeal. The commission has shortlisted 22 judges for the interviews and 13 advocates among them Dr Imaana Laibuuta, Moses Kurgat, Prof Nixon Sifuna and Paul Lilan. There are 11 vacant positions at the Court of Appeal while two other senior judges, Erastus Githinji and Alnashir Visram, are set to retire this year. The second highest court after the Supreme Court currently has 19 judges, 11 short of the required 30. The four Court of Appeal stations in the country are in Kisumu, Malindi, Nyeri, which have three judges each, and Nairobi where a majority of the judges are stationed. SHORTLISTED JUDGES Among the judges shortlisted are Abida Ali-Aroni, who is currently at Family Division of the High Court, Msagha Mbogholi, the presiding judge of the Civil Division of the High Court and the longest serving judge in the Judiciary. Others are Aggrey Muchelule, the presiding judge of the Family Division, Ngugi Grace Mumbi, who is the presiding judge of the Anti-Corruption Court at Milimani and Weldon Korir, the presiding judge of the Constitutional Court at Milimani. Justices Boaz Olao, Ireri Njagi and Maureen Onyango, the principal judge of the Employment and Labour relations Court and Luka Kimaru, who handles criminal appeals of the High Court at Milimani are also in the line up. Justice George Odunga, currently the presiding judge of the High Court in Machakos is also shortlisted for the interviews as is Justice Stephen Radido, of the Employment and Labour Relations court. Other judges are Florence Muchemi of the High Court, Francis Tuiyott of the Commercial Division of the High Court in Nairobi, Hedgwig Ong’udi (High Court Makueni), Hellen Omondi (High Court Nakuru), Joseph Sergon (Civil Division- Nairobi) and Pauline Nyamweya, the presiding judge of the Judicial Review court, Nairobi. LAWYERS Lawyers shortlisted are William Ondieki Mogaka, Joyce Majiwa, Joyce Miguda, Murshid Abdalla Mohammed and Josephine Kemunto. The Court of Appeal has had a shortage of judges due to the promotion of some judges including Chief Justice David Maraga, Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu, who went to the Supreme Court and Kihara Kariuki, who is now the Attorney-General. The shortage also came about because of the retirement of some judges including Justices John Mwera, Anyara Emukule, Festus Azangalala and GBM Kariuki. Some 113 people had applied to be considered for the Court of Appeal positions but only 35 made the cut. According to the law, the JSC must ensure that not more than two-thirds of the members are of the same gender, and shall observe the principle of regional and ethnic balance. There are only seven women judges at the Court of Appeal.  