The supremacy battle between Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu and his deputy James Nyoro heightened on Saturday after the former embarked on inspecting development projects in the county, maintaining that he is still in charge of county affairs. Mr Waititu had before his tour told the Nation in an exclusive interview that he will be chairing his official cabinet meeting on Wednesday. SH 588 MILLION He, however, clarified that it will not be held at the county headquarters in Kiambu town. Mr Waititu has been barred from office for the duration of the case involving the irregular procurement of a Sh588 million tender for upgrading various gravel roads to bitumen standard in Kiambu. He is facing charges alongside his wife Susan Wangari Ndung’u and six others. “I do not have to operate county activities from my office at the county headquarters. I can do it from anywhere. The court was very clear that the only place I cannot access is the county headquarters, but Kiambu is a very big county with a lot of places to conduct and run the affairs of the people who voted for me,” Mr Waititu said. The embattled governor inspected roads in the county and later toured Wangige Level 4 Hospital that is under construction. He took a swipe at the contractor, informing him that the project was behind schedule. The project is partly funded by the World Bank. TIGONI HOSPITAL He also visited Kikuyu town and inspected the market that is under construction before proceeding to Tigoni Hospital. He took a swipe at Mr Nyoro, who assumed power when Mr Waititu was in remand at the Industrial Area Prison, saying he had demonstrated that he is hungry for power and cannot be trusted. “My detractors are not happy with the projects that I have initiated. What I am going through is 2022 political wars by my opponents. You noticed how Mr Nyoro went to swear himself in hurriedly after the court ruling confirming how obsessed he is with power,” said the governor. Mr Nyoro did not pick calls or respond to a text message sent to him regarding Mr Waititu’s claims. He had earlier told the media that he was the county boss as long as the Governor is away and that there was no power vacuum. But even as he seeks to reclaim the county’s leadership, another challenge is awaiting Mr Waititu in the county assembly after Biashara Ward Member of County Assembly announced plans to file an impeachment motion against him. Mr Waititu dismissed the planned motion a “waste of time”, claiming he wields influence in the assembly. “That motion is dead on arrival. Kiambu county has 92 MCAs and a majority of them are with me.”  