In a world that is becoming increasingly xenophobic, Kenya has distinguished itself as a country where foreigners are welcome to settle and do business, as long as they do not abuse that hospitality. The round condemnation of a politician who recently threatened to wage attacks on foreign traders, including some from neighbouring countries, confirms this. However, there has lately been an increase in the number of foreigners engaging in illicit businesses or breaking the country’s laws, and generally behaving badly. The authorities deserve praise for quickly taking action whenever such transgressions are reported. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has warned the visitors that they must obey the country’s laws and adhere to business regulations. The quick deportations of errant foreigners have sent a firm signal that such conduct will not be condoned. Of serious concern, therefore, are cases of foreigners engaging in illicit businesses. The security personnel deserve kudos for firm action, such as the recent arrests of Chinese nationals accused of illegally manufacturing and selling alcohol on Nairobi’s outskirts. They had reportedly set up an unlicensed distillery. Just because the foreigners, some of them diehard criminals, see the potential to get rich in Kenya, they will continue to come over, either on clean visas or illegally. A number of illegal immigrants have been deported, but more still arrive, hence the need to enhance monitoring to identify those up to no good. Some foreign crooks establish their illicit enterprises by greasing wayward officials’ palms. However, there are adequate laws and regulations that, if strictly enforced, would ensure the country does not become the playground of foreign crooks and racketeers. We have elaborate and stringent regulations for the registration of businesses. If strictly enforced, the officials can help to weed out those masquerading as genuine investors. There is, therefore, a need to tighten trade laws tow weed out shady foreigners. Even as we welcome visitors, in line with our legendary hospitality, there should be no room for crooks.  