By 7pm Sunday evening, the battle will be surely and firmly on and all Gor Mahia fans - the thousands of us - shall be at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani, physically and/or spiritually rooting for the team we love. Even as we wish K’Ogalo all the best, I have a misgiving about the kind of play which leaves everything to the last minute. What I feel we are greatly lacking is a fighter spirit whenever the boys take to foreign stadiums. I don’t know if it’s stage fright or homesickness but recent results will bear me witness. Admitted the farce we had passing for a referee in Algeria did serious damage to our continental campaign. On this I would like to advice the boys to follow the example of the late Robert Wangila. When he came back from the 1988 Seoul Olympic Games with Kenya - and Africa’s - first ever boxing gold medal, ‘Anish or ‘Aruba’ as we called him was the darling of many a young person. He then looped us in on his secret - that he never trusted referees’ decisions and that is why he always tried to make his win as undisputed as possible. For this reason, he developed the habit of hard hitting which many a time left his opponents suffering Technical Knock Outs. I strongly advice Gor to adopt the ‘Wangila Solution’ in their future engagements. It is obvious that whenever we face teams from the north, referees, perhaps seeking to curry favour with the football nabobs at Caf headquarters in Cairo, always seem to favour the Arabs. Be that as it may, Gor players have the option of hammering in goals at each opportunity and thus taking the win beyond any reasonable doubt. The ‘onus probandi’ of a bad win would, therefore, lie largely on the shoulders of the men in black. While still at it, let me make a quick comment on ticketing. Now that it seems like such a mundane task of online ticketing has proved to be rocket science for the club officials, they should consider printing cheaper tickets. Lowering ticket prices would see more and more fans paying to watch the match. Consider that the fans have the option of sitting in the comfort of their homes or their local and watching the game on a Sunday evening as they contemplate the intricacies of going back to work the following Monday morning. All in all, wishing K’Ogalo happy hunting!   As it stands, Gor will be Sh35 million richer if they see-off the visitors.