Ethiopian Airlines is currently giving more details of the passengers who were on board ET 302 that crashed on Sunday shortly after taking off from Bole International Airport in Addis Ababa. The numbers we have so far are: 32 passengers were Kenyan 18 Canada 9 Ethiopian 8 Chinese 8 Italian 8 US 7 British 7 France 6 Egypt 5 Netherlands 4 UN passport 4 Indian 3 Russian 2 Moroccan 2 Israeli 1 Belgian 1 Ugandan 1 Yemeni 1 Sudanese 1 Togo 1 Mozambican 1 Norwegian Following confirmation of the fatalities, Kenya's Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia said a team led by Principal Secretary Esther Koimett has been sent to Ethiopia. Some of the nationalities of those who have died have not yet been confirmed. So far, authorities have confirmed nationalities of 130 people.   'CAPTAIN'S FEAR' The CEO of Ethiopian Airlines Tewolde Gebremariam said the captain of the crashed plane had told controllers at Bole airport that he was having difficulty and wanted to return, and that he had been given clearance. He also said that the plane had arrived on Sunday morning from South Africa. “[The] plane had more than three hours of ground time after coming from South Africa, it arrived with no remark and was dispatched with no remark.” Mr Tewolde said smoke was still smouldering at the crash site when he visited. INVESTIGATION A US-based independent agency that investigates aviation accidents, the National Transportation Safety Board, will send a team to help investigate the Ethiopian Airlines crash, a Reuters journalist reports. The Boeing 737-800MAX crashed around the town of Bishoftu, 60km southeast of the capital. It was travelling to Nairobi, Kenya. The Kenyan government has set up a support centre at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. Relatives and friends of passengers in the crashed plane are receiving information at the centres set up at Terminal ID and Four Points By Sheraton Hotel that is within the airport. Earlier, some of the relatives had broken down complaining that they had not been briefed by the government on the fate of their kin. But the Transport Cabinets Secretary James Macharia said they were waiting for manifests from the Ethiopian airline. When the manifests were revealed, Mr Macharia said the government was dispatching a delegation to Ethiopia for coordination. RUSSIA Russia's embassy in Addis Ababa, has posted the names of the its crash victims on Twitter. They are Ekaterina Polyakova, Alexander Polyakov and Sergei Vyalikov. The embassy says it is in contact with and ready to help their families. CHINA The Chinese embassy in Kenya said it was deeply saddened by the loss of lives, including its nationals. "At this difficult time, China will work with Kenyan, Ethiopian and relevant governments and people, ready to provide all necessary assistance and support," said the embassy in a statement. UN The UN Secretary-General's spokesperson said he was "deeply saddened at the tragic loss of lives in the airplane crash." In a statement to newsrooms, he said the United Nations is in contact with Ethiopian authorities to establish details of its personnel who died in the crash. Following the crash, the United Nations Environment Programme issued a short statement but did not divulge more information. But there were fears that some of the passengers may have been delegates heading to a UNEP conference in Nairobi. The statement was later withdrawn.  CRASHED PLANE Boeing, the company that built the crashed aeroplane, said in a tweet that it was "closely monitoring the situation". Its 737 Max-8 aircraft is relatively new to the skies, having been launched in 2016. It was added to the Ethiopian Airlines fleet in July last year. Another plane of the same model was involved in a crash five months ago, when a Lion Air flight crashed into the sea near Indonesia with nearly 190 people on board. PROBE Ethiopian Airlines says it has contacted families of the 157 victims of plane crash at Bishoftu to inform them of the “tragic accident.” In press statement on its Twitter handle, the airline said it teaming up with Ethiopia Civil Aviation Authority and Ethiopian Transport Authority to investigate the crash. A team has also been formed to identify the bodies and deliver them to the kin. “Investigation will be carried out to determine the cause of the accident, in collaboration with all the stakeholders, including the aircraft manufacturer Boeing and other international entities. After the crash Boeing said it was “saddened by the deaths occasioned by the plane crash. The airplane manufacturer said it will dispatch a team to the crash site to provide technical assistance under the direction of Ethiopian Accident Investigation Bureau and the US National Transport Safety Board. NATIONAL MOURNING Ethiopia's House of People's Representatives have declared Monday, March 11, a national day of mourning for its residents as the government launches investigation into the accident.     Rescue team carry collected bodies in bags at the crash site of Ethiopia Airlines near Bishoftu, a town some 60 kilometres southeast of Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, on March 10, 2019. PHOTO | MICHAEL TEWELDE | AFP All passengers and crew on board the Ethiopian Airlines jet have died.