Meshak Senge’s Strathmore Scorpions have one objective as the 2019 Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) women’s Premier League got underway on Sunday-go one better. And that strong message was delivered when Gilly Okumu sunk five goals as Scorpions tore apart Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT) 9-0 on Sunday at City Park Stadium. Scorpions finished the 2018 season in second place with 28 points from nines win, two losses and a draw, losing the title to Telkom. Scorpions’ only defeats came from champions Telkom, who got to top the standings unbeaten with 36 points from 12 wins for their 19th consecutive league title. Scorpions lost 2-0 in their final league duel with Telkom in December. “Our objective this season is to better our results from last season both on goals scored, wins and ultimately lift the title,” said former international Senge. “We have what it takes to win the league title but what we lack is self-belief.” Senge said his team performed well in the second leg last season and it’s only by bad luck that his girls lost to Telkom 1-0 in their last match. “At times it’s not about pedigree but that lady luck someone needs and that is what we didn’t have.” Senge has recruited three players from schools to bolster his side this season as he will be without the services of our key players he declined to name. “They have not left the team but have requested for some sabbatical owing to job commitments. They will come to play for us when free,” said Senge. Striker Cynthia Achieng and defender Doreen Wafula all from Trans Nzoia Secondary and forward Anjela Wema formerly of Bura Girls made their debut for Scorpions against JKUAT. “We have worked on our tactical approach besides tweaking our formation little bit,” said Senge adding that Telkom is still a team to beat this season by virtue of having quality and experienced players in addition to good resources. “That won’t cow us since we must beat the best to become the best.” Parklands rallied from a goal down to edge out United States International University (USIU) 3-2 in the only men’s Premier League duel last weekend at City Park. In men’s Super League, Ian Oyale scored a brace as Parkroad Badgers downed Kenya College of Accountancy-University (KCAU) 3-0 at the same venue.   Debutantes Oranje Leonas upset Multimedia University 1-0.