Six people, including five members of a family, have been killed in Nyang'ao village, Migori County. The five, who included two women and three children, were burnt beyond recognition when irate villagers torched their houses on Thursday night. The villagers accused them of practising witchcraft. Trouble started when one Mr Joel Awuonda was attacked with machetes following a protracted family squabble which started in 2018. In December last year, the assailant, named Omondi, was jailed for 12 years by Rongo Magistrate Court. The residents allege that last week, Mr Elijah Dwallo, the convict’s father, threatened to 'kill' Mr Awuonda for causing the imprisonment of his son. On Thursday evening, residents said, Mr Awuonda, who later died, suddenly fell ill and attempts to seek help from a traditional healer alleged that his ‘ailment’ had been caused by Mr Dwallo's family. HEALED “When (Mr) Awuonda’s condition worsened, villagers took him to (Mr) Dwallo’s home to be healed, but the family refused. He later died,” Mary Atieno, a witness said. Mr Dwallo’s mother Maritha Amollo, 80, was accused of bewitching the deceased. The irate villagers then attacked Mr Dwallo, who later escaped into a nearby sugarcane plantation. They later went to his home and set five houses on fire. The police identified the five as Ms Amollo, Mr Dwallo’s wife Helida Akinyi, and their three children. The bodies were taken to Rosewood Mortuary in Rongo town. Rongo Sub County Police Commander Mr Kibet Kirui said during the attack, four other family members escaped with serious burns. SERIOUS BURNS “The incident left five members of one family dead while four others escaped with serious injuries. The injured have been taken to Migori County Referral Hospital for treatment,” said Mr Kirui. He said that the police were looking for an eight-year-old girl who is still missing. “So far, we have not made any arrests but we are following leads, suspected arsonists will be brought to book soon,” added Mr Kibet. "It is very unfortunate that people can wipe out an entire family on mere allegations of witchcraft,” said Ms Alice Akinyi. Mr Dwallo, who narrowly escaped the ordeal, called on the police to do thorough investigations and arrest the arsonists. "I am lucky to have escaped from the jaws of death. The attackers wanted to wipe out my family. I call on the police to quickly investigate the matter and bring the perpetrators to book," said Mr Dwallo, who had deep cuts on the head, hands and back.  