A key suspect in the Sh2 billion corruption probe targeting Migori Governor Okoth Obado, who was arrested Saturday for driving a vehicle with ‘fake’ number plate, has been taken ill at the Central Police Station cells in Kisumu. Nyanza regional Director of Criminal Investigations Michael Barasa said Jared Kwaga fell sick in police cells and was taken to hospital. “He complained of being sick so we decided to take him to the hospital for treatment. He is still under police custody,” Mr Barasa said. Mr Kwaga was still being attended to at the Aga Khan Hospital in Kisumu, on Saturday evening. Kisumu Central police boss Noah Katumo told the Nation that Mr Kwaga was apprehended as the vehicle he was in had the wrong number plate. The number plate - KCF 346 Y - was not originally registered with the black Toyota Prado V8, said Mr Katumo, who is the Divisional Criminal Investigation Officer (DCIO). "We are conducting investigations to establish his intentions for using a vehicle with a wrong number plate," the DCIO said, adding Mr Kwaga would be arraigned on Monday. “We have to lock him up as we conduct investigations before presenting him in court," he added. SPECIAL CRIMES At the station's OB desk earlier, Mr Kwaga told the Nation that he was apprehended by officers who said they were in the Special Crimes Unit and locked up at the Central Police Station cells. He was arrested on Jomo Kenyatta Highway near the State Lodge after landing at the Kisumu airport, having flown from Nairobi. Police sources said the correct number plate was KCF 757 Y, which was inscribed on the vehicle’s rear windshield. Mr Kwaga did not reveal much about the number plate when the Nation questioned him about it. EACC PROBE Mr Obado is accused of using proxies, including his relatives, to siphon Sh2 billion from the county's coffers, according to an affidavit filed in court by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC). The commission said seven members of his family registered 16 companies and secured multimillion tenders from the county government. The individuals were identified as Mr Kwaga, Ms Christine Ochola, Ms Carolyne Ochola, Mr Joram Otieno, Mr Patroba Otieno, Ms Penina Otago and Mr Robert Okeyo. 'POLICE PLOT' Mr Kwaga expressed fear for his life following the graft probe. On Saturday, he took issue with what he described as plans by police in Kisumu to move him to Nairobi. Regarding this claim, Mr Katumo said he would be presented in court in Kisumu while Mr Barasa noted that the investigation into the number plate discrepancy started in Nairobi. Police sources in Kisumu said they were taking Mr Kwaga’s issue seriously as Al-Shabaab terrorists used a vehicle with fake number plates during the January 15 ambush at the dusitD2 office complex in Nairobi. STATE JOB Early in February, Mr Kwaga was appointed to the council of the Kenya Institute of Mass Communication but the decision was later revoked. He was among many individuals in a list of appointments by President Uhuru Kenyatta and several ministers in a Gazette notice of February 8. Three days later, in another Gazette notice, Information, Communication and Technology minister Joe Mucheru said he had cancelled the appointment.   Jared Kwaga is a key suspect in the Sh2 billion EACC probe against Governor Obado.