The Confederation of African Football led the sport's stakeholders in paying tribute to Former Kenya Football Federation (KFF) Secretary General Hussein Swaleh, who was among the 32 Kenyans who perished in Sunday morning's Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 crash that was on its way from Addis Ababa. Swaleh was reportedly returning home after serving as Commissioner in the Caf Champions League match between Ismaily SC (Egypt) and TP Mazembe (Democratic Republic of Congo) played on Friday in Alexandria. "The President of the Confédération Africaine de Football, Ahmad Ahmad and all the African football family send their condolences to our dearest Hussein Swaleh Mtetu family, his relatives and to the Kenyan Football Federation," read a statement by Caf posted on it's website on Monday. He was appointed as Caf Match Commissioner for 2018-2020. He was the secretary general of now defunct Kenya Football Federation (KFF) when Kenya last played at the Africa Cup of Nations finals in Tunisia 2004. The Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 to Nairobi crashed early on Sunday, killing 149 passengers and eight crew, the airline said having left Bole airport in Addis Ababa at 8:38am (+3GMT), before losing contact with the control tower just a few minutes later at 8:44 am. The Council of East and Central Africa Football Associations (Cecafa) also joined the Kenyan football fraternity in mourning Swaleh. In a statement to the press, Cecafa secretary general Nicholas Musonye sent his condolences to the family and friends of Swaleh. “Cecafa take this opportunity to convey our message of condolences to the families and friends who lost their loved ones in the tragic Ethiopian airline crash on Sunday,” Musonye said. "The council mourns with all the families in Kenya and all over the world. As a football family we extend our sorrows to the family of Hussein Swaleh the Kenyan football official who died in the tragic crash. Swaleh was a devoted football administrator who served in various capacities in Kenya and Caf. We pray for his soul,” the statement concluded. Football Kenya Federation president Nick Mwendwa termed the death a loss to football. "Sad day for football. You were doing what you loved most. Fare thee well my chairman. Until we meet again," Mwendwa tweeted. Harambee Stars captain and Tottenham Hotspur midfielder Victor Wanyama also paid his tributes. "Heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of FKF Lower Eastern branch chairman and @CAF_Online official Hussein Swaleh and all the victims of the #EthiopianAirlineCrash," Wanyama tweeted. "Terribly saddened to learn that Hussein Swaleh was on the ill fated Ethiopian Airlines flight. We worked together on several occasions regarding football administration in Kenya. My heartfelt condolences to his family and friends. Inallilahi wa inailaiyhi rajiun," tweeted Extreme Sports CEO Hussein Mohammed. Football journalist David Kwalimwa tweeted, "Rest well Swaleh Hussein. A Football Kenya Federation official who is among those who perished in the #EthiopianAirlines accident on Sunday. Thoughts and prayers are with family." "We are deeply saddened by the plane crash involving an Ethiopian Airline aircraft early this morning with 32 Kenyan lives, including FKF official Hussein Swaleh, among the 157 dead. Our condolences to all those affected and may they find peace at this difficult time," tweeted SportPesa Premier League club Sofapaka.   According to a statement from the airline, 157 people are believed to have been on board.