A teary and dejected Joseph Kori opted to have a friend read out his tribute to his wife Mary Wambui during her funeral in Mweiga, Nyeri County. Even as his sons delivered heartbreaking tributes, Mr Kori did not speak throughout the emotional funeral service held at Mweiga KWS Airstrip. Ms Wambui was accorded a high-profile funeral, her last ride being in a Mercedes hearse. Mourners gathered in thousands for the burial of Ms Wambui, many describing her as an outgoing and jovial person. Dressed in matching blue suits, Mr Kori sat next to his two sons Derrick Kamangara and Hayden Karue, occasionally breaking down in tears. SOLIDARITY In his tribute he described his late wife as charming and jovial always willing to assist anyone in need. “My love Mary, it is hard to accept your untimely death. Eleven years ago when we got into a marriage union I never knew that I would never get a chance to tell you goodbye, especially when you were taken away from me suddenly and so shockingly at the prime of your life,” Mr Kori said in his tribute. Despite the gloomy mood during the funeral, relatives and friends of Mr Kori and his wife expressed unity and affection pledging to stand with him during the tough times. The family had opted to put the funeral of Ms Wambui on hold until he is released, to allow him to bury his wife. Ms Wambui was buried in her husband’s home as per Kikuyu customs. RELEASED Her son Derrick left mourners in tears as he struggled to read out an emotional tribute to her deceased mother, recounting the last moment they shared together before she was brutally murdered. “The last day I saw her was the day we were going to school. She told me some things: that if anything happens to her or dad I should take care of my brother and give him all the love he needs and always be there for him. That I should remember him and them and also my future family,” Derrick said amid tears. Mr Kori was released after spending three weeks in police custody after investigations by DCI homicide detectives failed to link him directly to the murder of his wife. DEATH Detectives told the Nation that he could not be placed at the scene of the crime. The two key suspects in the murder, Judy Wangui, Mr Kori's mistress, and car hire dealer Michael Githae, are facing murder charges. Wambui was killed in Ms Wangui's house on January 26, and the post-mortem found that she suffered nine killer blows to the head.   Taxi driver and Kori's mistress are still in police custody.