Former Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) director Michael Rabar has been appointed as the Chief Executive Officer for the 2020 IAAF World Under-20 Championships. The appointments, made by Cabinet Secretary for Sports Rashid Echesa in the Kenya Gazette dated March 1 before he was sacked on Friday, also saw Mary Mwaki appointed as Rabar’s deputy in the Local Organising Committee (LOC). The 49-year-old Rabar, who is the Kenya Cup rugby side Homeboyz chairman, has also served as chairman of the annual Safari Sevens rugby tournament on several occasions. Athletics Kenya president Jackson Tuwei will head the LOC where Regina Gachora is the Chief Operations Officer while AK committee member Barnaba Korir, who chairs the Youth Committee docket, is the Director of Ticket Operations and Knowledge Management. Farrah Kasim will be the Director for Finance and Administration and will be deputised by AK treasurer David Miano while AK Kenya Police chairman Joseph Kiget is the Director for Security and Accreditation deputised by Joseph Chirchir. Safaricom’s Zaheeda Suleiman will be the Director for Marketing and Commercial while Robert Nyanga’aya is her deputy as Citizen TV’s Michael Okinyi was appointed as Director for Media, Broadcasting and Communication with The Stars’ Chris Mbaisi as his deputy. The 2020 U20 Championships will be held at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani from July 7-12. The Local Organising Committee (Secretariat): Chairman - Lt. Gen (retired) Jackson Tuwei Chief Executive Officer - Michael Agwingi Rabar Assistant, Chief Executive Officer - Mary Mwaki Chief Operations Officer - Regina Gachora Director of Ticket Operations and Knowledge Management - Barnabas Korir Assistant Director of Ticket Operations and Knowledge Management - Maxwell Nyamu Director, Finance and Administration - Farrah Kasim Assistant Director, Finance and Administration - David Miano Director, Legal - Emmanuel K. Gichohi - Assistant Director, Legal - Christine Mangwana Director of ICT - Gatwiri Kinya Assistant Director, ICT - Hesbon Malwenyi Director, Security and Accreditation - Joseph Kiget Assistant Director, Security and accreditation - Joseph Chirchir Director, Protocol - Colonel Matigo Marwanga Assistant Director, Protocol - Susan Kamau Director, Technical and Competition - Ibrahim Hussein Assistant Director, Technical and Competition - Paul Mutwii Director, Marketing and Commercial - Zaheeda Suleiman Assistant Director, Marketing and Commercial - RobertNyanga'aya Director, Media, Broadcasting and Communication - MichaelOkinyi Assistant Director, Media, Broadcasting and Communication - Chris Mbaisi Director, Transport - Charles Welangai Assistant Director, Transport - Vincent Kaduki Director, Logistics - Douglas Wakiihuri Assistant Director, Logistics - Mohamed Bashir Ibrahim Director, Medical and Ant-Doping - Jared Nyakiba (Dr.) Assistant Director, Medical and Anti-Doping - Dr. Victor Bargoria Director, Volunteers - Mary Chege Assistant Director, Volunteers - Elizabeth Wangare Thiro Director, Accommodation - Mercy Ndung'u Assistant Director, Accommodation - Peter Angwenyi Director, Legacy - Peter Ngentu Assistant Director, Legacy - Jabil Maalim Mohamed Assistant Director, Legacy - Patrick Opembe Director-General, Sports Kenya - Pius Metto  