PARIS, Around 10,000 Algerian-origin protesters rallied in Paris on Sunday, police said, in a demonstration against President Abdelaziz Bouteflika, calling on him not to seek another term in office in next month's election. The protesters gathered for the second weekend in a row at the Republique square in central Paris, while there were smaller demonstrations in other cities around France such as Marseille and Bordeaux. "We need to get rid of the system," 24-year-old protester Ahmed Eddaidj, who was wrapped in an Algerian flag, told AFP in Paris. The student, who has been in France for four years, added: "I'd like to go back to Algeria, but there's no work. We're looking for a better life." Rachid Nekkaz — a businessman and political activist opposed to Bouteflika — was among those in Paris on Sunday after he was released by Swiss police. Nekkaz, who was arrested on Friday at a Geneva hospital where Bouteflika had been receiving treatment, was carried briefly on the shoulders of a group of demonstrators. ALGERIAN DIASPORA France, which ruled Algeria for more than 100 years as a colonial power, is home to the largest population of Algerian-origin people outside of the north African country. Around 1.7 million people of Algerian origin are estimated to live in France, according to national statistics agency INSEE. Some members of the diaspora want French President Emmanuel Macron to take a firmer stand in support of the peaceful protests against ailing 82-year-old Bouteflika which began more than a fortnight ago. But the Paris government is wary about being seen to interfere in its former territory and has been extremely cautious in its statements. Opposition figure Ali Benflis, a former prime minister of Bouteflika who has called for him to step aside after 20 years in power, urged France to stay out of the crisis. "France is a major power that we respect as an associate and a partner, but Algeria's problems cannot be resolved from the outside and no-one should interfere," he told the Journal du Dimanche newspaper in an interview. One of Macron's close political allies, Francois Bayrou, called the peaceful demonstrations an "Algerian Spring" on Sunday and said it was "in many ways exemplary and essential." But "it's not because these movements begin well that they end well," he told French media, adding that Islamist parties could try to benefit from the instability.  