Police have arrested the suspected killer police officer who shot dead a secondary school teacher in Navakholo Sub-County in Kakamega on Thursday evening. Western region police boss Rashid Yakub said Mr Patrick Nyapara was attempting to escape to Uganda when police nabbed him. “Through joint operation of the security agencies, we managed to arrest Mr Nyapara while he was trying to cross to Uganda. He cooperated with the officers and he is under police custody,” said Mr Yakub. He said the suspect will be arraigned on Monday to be charged with murder. Mr Nyapara had allegedly shot to death Christine Maonga, a secondary school teacher at Navakholo Secondary School and with whom they he had a child. RECENTLY HIRED Mr Wesisi, Maonga’s brother, said she had just been employed by the Teachers Service Commission after three years of working under the boards of management in various schools. She had been posted to St Monica Buyofu Mixed Secondary School in Busia County. Mr Fredrick Okumu, the father of Ms Maonga, denied that his daughter was married to the police officer who killed her. He said he had never seen the man, who is said to be the father of his three-year-old granddaughter. “In fact, he is not the father of this small girl, unless DNA is conducted to give proof. He has never shown any concern about her upkeep. Since she was born three years ago, it has become my responsibility to take care of her,” said Mr Okumu. 'RUMOURS' Mr Okumu also dismissed claims on social media that the police officer had sponsored the university education of his daughter and that she had rejected him upon getting employment by TSC, saying he is an able man who has seen all his seven children through university. He said he pays the school fees of his children on his own without any support. “In fact, the police officer knew my daughter when she was almost completing her university education. What assistance did he offer to claim her life?” questioned the old man. The fourth born in a family of seven, Ms Maonga graduated from Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology with an bachelor’s degree in education in 2015 and had enrolled for her masters’ degree in 2018. She had also registered with the Kenya National Examinations Council to train as an examiner. Mr Okumu said his daughter had paid Sh19, 000 on Thursday morning for training to mark national examinations before she was killed in the evening. NOT MARRIED Ms Maonga’s mother, Rebecca Nechesa, said her daughter had never been married and that she had moved out of their home to a rental house at Navakholo a month ago. “She has been operating from home until January when she requested that we rent a house for her near the school. She moved out with her daughter who got admitted at a private nursery school at Navakholo,” said Mrs Nechesa. The mother recalled how they had communicated on phone a few minutes before her death. She said Ms Maonga had complained that the man was stalking and pestering her despite having broken their relationship off. “She asked me to tell him to stop following her. I advised her not to quarrel him but allow him to see the daughter. I further told her to be patient because she was moving to Busia and they would be separated. In less than five minutes, I received a call that my daughter had been shot dead. I didn’t believe myself,” said a tearful Ms Nechesa. Mr Okumu said the family has approached the Independent Police Oversight Authority who have taken up the matter.   Navakholo officer on the run.