Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has once again reshuffled his Cabinet in readiness for a planned official unveiling of the new team early this week. The changes, which were quietly effected two weeks ago, have seen the governor’s trusted lieutenants moved to critical departments. In January, the governor reorganised his Cabinet following the resignation of Janet Ouko as the county Education minister. Currently, the county has only five substantive ministers with three more waiting to be sworn in after being approved by the Nairobi County Assembly two weeks ago. Two more positions remain without any substantive holders. In the changes, according to a source privy to the happenings at City Hall, Mr Sonko’s ‘Mr Fix it’ Charles Kerich has been moved to the Finance and Economic Planning docket from Lands and Housing department. This comes even as Economic Planning Chief Officer Winfred Kathagu had been vetted and approved to head the same docket. Transport minister Mohamed Dagane has been moved to the Health docket and even presided over his first official public function during the launch of Human Milk Bank in Pumwani Hospital on Friday. Mr Dagane will now be replaced by former Trade minister Allan Igambi. Mr Newton Munene (ICT and E-government) and Water minister Larry Wambua retained their dockets. Environment, Trade and Lands remain without ministers. Ms Sonia Birdi, the Environment nominee, was rejected by the Assembly while Ms Lucia Mulwa (Education) and Pauline Kahiga (Devolution) are yet to be sworn in. The new ministers are yet to be sworn in even as the county still lacks a substantive County attorney. The position is held by Mr David Oseko in an acting capacity. But Mr Sonko said that they will be sworn in on Monday, adding that he will also reinstate one of his former executives and advertise for the other remaining posts. Meanwhile, a number of chief officers were also affected by the reorganisation. Roads and Transport chief officer Fredrick Karanja has been moved to Agriculture in the same capacity. A Mr Muthama has replaced him at the Transport docket. Dr Washington Makodingo, formerly Agriculture chief officer, is the new Health chief officer. He takes over from Mr Mohammed Salah who has moved to Housing and Urban Planning. However, Mr Fredrick Nzioki (Trade), Mr Halkano Waqo (ICT), Mr Mohammed Abdi (Water), Mr Leboo Morintat (Public Service Management), Ms Anne Mwenda (Fire and Disaster Management), Mr David Makori (Environment), Mr Justus Kathenge (Planning), and Mr Stephen Mwangi (Lands) retained their dockets.   Nairobi governor says tired of rowing with Kemsa over millions owed drugs supplier.