Prof George Magoha nomination as the Cabinet secretary for Education does not need to go through parliamentary approval, Chief Justice David Maraga has said. “Upon appointment of Prof Magoha, the only hurdle remaining before he occupies the coveted seat is vetting by parliament’s education committee. Many Kenyans are of the opinion that Prof Magoha doesn't need Parliament to be cleared. I also support that,” said Mr Maraga. Mr Maraga was speaking at Egerton University, Njoro campus Saturday when he attended a church service organised by the Seventh Day Adventist students where he delivered a sermon titled “Purpose of life”. He said Prof Magoha deserves the position as he has done a lot about the improvement of education system in Kenya. “God needs the Magohas from bright students like you who are members of SDA. Prof Magoha has gone through many challenges and today he is one of the most learned man in Kenya and his 91 page CV is a testimony of what kind of person he is,” said Mr Maraga. He added: “Even God in heaven want more Magohas from you members of SDA. You may not become the next Cabinet secretary for Education but you can become a Magoha in another capacity if you follow Christian values of humility and don't allow yourself to be ruined by drugs because it doesn't make sense to use such substance.” On corruption, Mr Maraga revealed that it was still a major problem in the country and was hurting the poor more than the rich. “Poor patients are even asked to give money in hospital to get blood transfusion for Sh2,000 and this is unacceptable”, said Mr Maraga. He said lords of corruption who have amassed billions of shillings are not enjoying their loot. “They are not getting sleep and their children are the worst drug addicts, I know several,” he said. He revealed that he never thought one day he would be a CJ.“ Even in my wildest dreams I never thought one day I will occupy the most powerful position in the Judiciary. God is great for what he has done to me.”   Rashid Echesa kicked out.