Two red cars, three goals and late drama punctuated AFC Leopards' 2-1 win over bogey side Tusker in a thrilling SportPesa Premier League match at Kenyatta Stadium on Saturday. Leopards were reduced to 10 men after 35 minutes after defender Isaac Kipyegon was sent off for a second bookable offence - which came barely 90 seconds after the first - but it was Andre Mbungo's charges who took the lead through Wayi Yeka before Vincent Oburu doubled their advantage to the shock of their opponents.     Tusker were also reduced to 10 men after Boniface Muchiri saw red after collecting his second booking 15 minutes from time before second half substitute Amini Muzerwa, who replaced Sydney Ochieng on 61 minutes, struck a late consolation for Tusker in a controversial manner. The goal had been ruled out for offside by the second assistant referee before the centre referee Peter Waweru in consultation with the fourth official allowed it to stand. This is Leopards’ fourth win in 24 meetings against Tusker who’ve won 15 times with five matches ending in a draw. They take their points tally to 16, nine below Tusker. Kipyegon, roped in at the start of the season from Zoo Kericho, went into the centre referee Peter Waweru’s book on 33 minutes for a reckless tackle on Hashim Sempala and Waweru was obliged to send him off moments later for another dangerous foul on David Juma - who was in full flight down the left flank.   Tusker went on the raid from the word go but failed to utilise their chances before Leopards upped their game as the tempo increased towards the half hour mark. Robinson Kamura’s free kick on 31 minutes from 25 yards out was parried by Emery Mvuyekure in Tusker goal but Way Yeka – who had been fouled by Marlon Tangauzi for the free kick, was unable to pounce on the rebound. Sammy Mejja sent over the bar his free kick from outside the area on 37 minutes. With Leopards down to 10men, coach Andre Casa Mbungo sacrificed Jafari Owiti for Moses Mburu. Owiti, shocked that he was being sacrificed, reluctantly left the field of play after a section of Ingwe fans signalled him to leave. Mburu’s first action on the pitch was a long throw in from the left flank that Tusker defenders failed to clear their lines permitting Whyvonne Isuza to unleash a bullet header that Mvuyekure parried back into play.   Leopards next play Sofapaka as Tusker meet Ulinzi Stars.   Mathare are now a point below leaders Bandari.