International football star McDonald Mariga will take on ODM’s candidate and Amani National Congress’ Eliud Owalo as the front runners in the Kibra by-election scheduled for November 7. The Jubilee National Election Board (NEB) chaired by Andrew Musangi on Monday settled on the former Inter Milan midfielder after interviewing 16 candidates due to “his impeccable character, enduring connections with the people, demonstrated energy and passion to lead and he has demonstrated humility”. NOMINATION Mr Mariga will also face off with Democratic Party candidate Dorn Anaclet and Ford Kenya’s Butichi Khamisi. ODM’s candidate will be known on Saturday after the party’s nomination. Addressing the press at the party headquarters in Pangani, Nairobi on Monday evening, Mr Musangi said Mr Mariga emerged the best in the interview beating 15 candidates. Earlier on, Mariga denied claims that his candidature to Kibra parliamentary seat was being fronted by Deputy President William Ruto. He said he made the decision of his own volition and after family consultation. “I’m not being fronted by anyone, it’s my own decision and family because I want to give back to the society,” he said. Mr Mariga said the interview was about the Jubilee manifesto and the Constitution. APOLOGIES He said that serving the people of Kibra is part of giving back to the society after leaving football “We are the same candidates and no one has an advantage over the other, I will support the candidate who wins,” Mr Mariga said. It also emerged that out of the 11 NEB members, only six were available for the interviews with the rest sending apologies. Other interviewed candidates included Morris Kinyanjui, Walter Trenk, Ibrahim Said, Doreen Wasike, Oscar Kambona, Bukachi Chapia, Jane Githaiga, Jack Owino, Omondi Rajab, Daniel Adem, Daniel Orogo, Ramadhan Hussein, Frank Amollo, Timothy Kaimenyi and Geoffrey Mwangi. Speaking to the press outside the party headquarters before stepping in for the interview, Mr Adem — who unsuccessfully vied for Rarieda seat in 1997 — termed himself a “handshake candidate”. He said his election will be an extension of the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM party leader Raila Odinga. The Orange Democratic Movement party is set to conduct its nominations on Saturday. CLINCH SEAT Aspirants include Awino Christone Odhiambo, Orero Peter Ochieng’, Sine Tony, Ogola Sira, Ojijo William, Reuben Ayacko, and Oguwa Stephen Okello. Others are; Okoth Bernard Otieno, Obayi Obaricks, Erick Ochieng’, Owino Brian Shem, Millar John Otieno, Musungu Benson and Owade Lumumba Patrick. The Democratic Party, founded by retired President Mwai Kibaki, has also unveiled 26-year-old Dorn Anaclet as its candidate for the by-election at a function presided over by party leader Joseph Munyao and his deputy Nyakera Irungu. Mr Anaclet, a graduate of Economics from the University of Nairobi and a resident of Kibera, promised to clinch the seat previously held by the late Ken Okoth. “I will be on the ballot and I can assure you that I will win the seat based on my deep roots in the constituency,” Mr Anaclet told the party’s National Executive Committee during the handover ceremony of the nomination certificate at the United Kenya Club in Nairobi. CAMPAIGNS Mr Munyao welcomed Mr Anaclet and promised that the party will stand with him throughout the campaign for the by election, while Mr Irungu declared that he will lead the party’s campaign to ensure it wins the seat. “We are committed to ensuring that we win this seat. I will personally avail myself for the campaigns. We are proud to have you and we promise to walk with you all through.” Ford Kenya announced on Sunday that Mr Butichi Khamisi will be its flag bearer in the by-election. Mr Khamisi defected to Ford Kenya last week after the Amani National Congress handed Mr Eliud Owalo direct nomination to last week.  