Kisumu County Assembly risk being evicted over Sh15.8 rent arrears. The assembly may also have some of its property auctioned to recover the money it owes to a landlord of a commercial building that houses its offices. The rent arrears were accumulated despite the MCAs and their staff not occupying the offices. Apart from this, the assembly also owes various suppliers millions of shillings. AUDIT Acting Speaker Elisha Oraro hinted at instituting an audit of all the assembly finances to unearth what he termed questionable expenditures by his predecessor Mr Onyango Oloo. Through their lawyers Wasuna and Company Advocates, property owners Shilloah Investments Limited have issued an eviction notice to the assembly in a letter dated June 19, 2019. The letter seen by Nation and addressed to the assembly’s clerk, the assembly was given the office spaces on the ninth, 10th and 11th floors of Mega Plaza building on July 9, 2018. The initial rent from July 2018 was Sh829, 733 per month, but went up to Sh912, 706 from July 1, 2019 exclusive of service charge. The service charge payable was Sh204, 750 per month in 2018 but rose to Sh225, 225 from July 1, 2019. INTEREST The arrears also continue to attract interest of Sh2 per cent per month for late repayment until it is fully settled. “By virtue of the failure by the County Assembly of Kisumu to pay the arrears as and when they fall due, our client has become entitled to evict them from the premises and retake vacant possession thereof,” reads the letter. It further threatens to take a legal action against the assembly should it fail to vacate the premises within 30 days, which had already elapsed by August 1, 2019. “Should they fail to adhere to the demands, we shall institute legal proceedings for recovery of the rent arrears and vacant possession of the premises without further or any reference at the county assembly’s risks as to cost,” reads the letter. But while Mr Oraro confirmed having received the letter from the said property owners, he blamed Mr Oloo of plunging the assembly into debt. “We are currently engaging the property owners and studying the agreement we had with them. We are asking them to give us more time to settle this,” said Mr Oraro. WASTAGE He, however, feels Mr Oloo engaged in wastage since they never occupied the building. He told Nation that the Sh13. 4 million owed by July 1, 2019 could have been used to construct a building to serve all the MCAs and their staff. He said that after scrutinising the County Assembly Service Board minutes, he did not find an agreement on lease of the office space. “I do not understand how we owe people this much yet it was budgeted for. I was shocked when other suppliers and service providers also wrote demand letters,” said Mr Oraro. Apart from the rent arrears, the assembly owes County Assembly Forum Sh8.5 million for annual subscription, Sh4 million for advertisements in various media houses and Sh6 million for air travel agents. POOR STATE Also owed are various hotels in Kisumu, Vihiga, Mombasa, Nairobi and Eldoret where members of various committees have been meeting. The assembly currently lacks basic amenities like toilets which are in deplorable state. Communication in the assembly is difficult yet Sh9 million was allocated and paid for yet to be installed microphones and other communication gadgets. There is no running water in the assembly while committee rooms are in deplorable state despite Sh15 million having been set aside for renovations. “I think an audit will reveal a lot on these questionable expenditures. I know I am inheriting both assets and liabilities, but if I do not do this, I will end up getting in trouble,” said Mr Oraro.  