A police officer was on Thursday morning found dead in her rental house in Eldoret, Uasin County. Neighbours found Robina Moraa's body in a pool of blood in the house at Miti Moja in the outskirts of Eldoret town. It had multiple stab wounds. As some of her colleagues from Naiberi Police Station viewed the constable's body, others sealed off the scene to keep the public away. VISIT Estate caretaker Stanley Some said Ms Moraa arrived home early on Wednesday afternoon and that a young man later arrived in a car. “He had come here once or twice so I was not alarmed. I met him at the gate as he was exiting but he looked a bit disturbed,” said Mr Some. The caretaker said that at about 4.30am on Thursday, two men who visited the officer's house said she had been killed. He notified the village elder who then alerted police. Ms Moraa had lived at Miti Moja for about two months. Neighbours described her as calm and welcoming as she interacted with them freely. "COUNTY SAFE" County police boss Johnston Ipara said they were following several leads in a bid to arrest Ms Moraa's killers. The incident resulted in concerns about the safety of police officers outside police camps amid a crime wave in the area. Mr Ipara said, “We have no worry for officers living outside camps as this is an isolated case. The county is safe. A few criminal elements are causing trouble but we will deal with them firmly,” he told journalists at the scene. “We have directed the sub-county crime investigation officer to ensure those involved are arrested.  Let’s not speculate as we work to get the right evidence and arrest the right people." The police boss asked the public to cooperate with police in fighting crime in the region. HOUSING CRISIS The government allowed police officers to live outside their camps as part of reforms that began in September 13 2018. According to the new arrangement, officers will no longer live in government houses, leased houses, police camps or police lines but will enter into private tenancy agreements in areas of their own choice. The government has been giving them allowances in a move President Uhuru Kenyatta said was aimed at easing the perennial housing crisis.  