The Kenyan Premier League entered Round Three at the weekend with nine matches being played across different venues in the country. Kakamega Homeboyz shot to the top of the table with a 3-0 mauling of Kariobangi Sharks as Western Stima and Mathare United moved into the top five with their first wins of the season. Champions Gor Mahia are yet to drop a point after edging a stubborn KCB 2-1 on Sunday. Bandari picked a rare win on the road in Awendo while Tusker, Nzoia Sugar and AFC Leopards were also victorious away. Nation Sport samples the breath-taking moments of match day three and parades the best performers who line up in a 4-3-3 formation. Justin Ndikumana starts in goal after ensuring Bandari protected their slim lead with a heroic display that culminated in his clean sheet for his new employers. His teammate Nicholas Mejja gets a slot at right back after another industrious performance that saw him provide the assist for their only goal in Awendo. On the opposite end is Mathare United’s David Owino who opened the scoring against Ulinzi Stars with a header. Kennedy Onyango, nicknamed Vidic for his solid tackling, lines up in central defence after putting gloss on a fine individual performance with a goal in Homeboyz’s win. Gor Mahia’s Joash "Rio" Onyango completes our back four after showing great leadership in defence against KCB especially in the second half where they came under a lot of pressure. Western Stima clearly won the midfield battle against Posta Rangers thanks to Edwin Omondi who threw himself at every tackle at the centre of the park. He is joined by Gor’s Lawrence Juma whose goal-scoring prowess is complimenting his great passing ability this season. At the tip of our midfield triangle is Kevin Kimani who is slowly regaining his 2011 form that saw him score and create in equal measure in the process claiming the Player of the year award. Allan Wanga showed why he is indispensable at Kakamega Homeboyz as he opened his account with a brace. Lining up alongside him is Brian Nyakan who is clearly rediscovering himself at Sofapaka after scoring twice against Chemelil Sugar. Luke Namanda is the last name in our three-prong attack after his first goal in Tusker colours proved to be the winner against Zoo in Keircho.  