National Super League (NSL) side Migori Youth will be hoping to bounce back when they take on Coast Stima in one of the 10 matches scheduled for Friday afternoon. The team lost its opening two fixtures- 3-1 loss to Vihiga United in their first match and an embarrassing 2-0 defeat by Bidco United at home. They appointed a new look technical bench this week with former Homa Bay All Stars tactician Robert Ojienda taking over from Wilson Aol. He is hoping to kick start his reign with a win. “The team signed young players and we are still trying to ensure they gel. We played very well in the first two matches, but conceded cheap goals due to inexperience at the back. Our vision as a team is to nurture and expose young talent from Migori and we are therefore not afraid to give the kids a chance. We have worked hard in training this week and I optimistic we will get a positive result against Coast Stima,” he told Nation Sport on Thursday. “It also feels great to join the team and it’s a dream come true for me as a young coach. Of course it comes with pressure to perform, but we have to be patient and build the team, step by step, ” he added. Ojienda will be deputised by former Sony Sugar and Gor Mahia defender, Kevin Oluoch who has also been appointed as the first assistant coach, while Sammy Oremo will be the second assistant. Shem Wema will be the Team Manager. Nine more matches will be played in various venues across the country. The Thika Sub County Stadium hosts a double-header that will be live on TV. FIXTURES- All matches kick off at 3pm unless stated Ushuru v Administration Police (Ruaraka Stadium APS Bomet v Nairobi Stima (Green Stadium Kericho St Joseph’s Youth v Kibera Black Stars (Afraha Stadium Kenya Police v Fortune Sacco (Karuturi Sports Ground Modern Coast Rangers v Shabana (Serani Sports Club Northern Wanderers v Mt. Kenya United (Camp Toyoyo Bidco United v Talanta (Thika Stadium 1pm) Muranga Seal v Vihiga Bullets (Thika Stadium Coast Stima v Migori Youth (Mbaraki Sports Club Nairobi City Stars v Vihiga united (Hope Center  