Five members of the Kisumu County Assembly have been summoned by the local Director of Criminal Investigations in connection to recent chaos in the assembly. The MCAs who are accused of causing chaos and injuring the assembly’s staff are Joachim Oketch (Kondele), Mr Seth Okumu (East Seme), Joseph Olale (Nyalenda B), Mr Seth Kanga (Milimani Market) and Nyalenda A’s Ojwang Ogendo. The complainant is said to be the Sergeant at Arms, Mr George Omayo, who was forced to flash out his firearm and shoot in the air in self defence when he was confronted by the leaders. CALLED POLICE Mr Amayo had called the police to help restore order in the assembly’s precincts but when they came, the MCAs chased them away, leaving him alone. When cornered, he fired in the air to disperse the MCAs who were closing in on him. He later fled as the public and MCAs hurled stones at him. last Friday, the five MCAs were summoned by the police who said they were investigating the incident. The ward representatives appeared before the DCI at Kisumu Central Police Station in the afternoon. MEETING This happened moments after the Kisumu Central DCI Noah Katumo met the acting Speaker Elisha Oraro, Majority Leader Kenneth Onyango and acting Clerk Owen Ojuok. Mr Kanga told the Nation that he had recorded a statement with the DCI on Monday in connection to the incident and was to go back on Tuesday. “When I went there I recorded my statement and the officers told me to leave and wait for their call on Tuesday,” said Mr Kanga. While Kisumu County DCI Boss Arap Towett maintained that the MCAs are not immune to criminal liability on offences committed at the assembly, ousted Speaker Onyango Oloo maintained that the members of the assembly facing criminal cases enjoy immunity. IMMUNITY “Even those who were shouting at me recently are facing criminal cases in court but the law provides for immunity for MCAs in an event that the issues happened in the assembly,” said Mr Oloo. Mr Oloo, who was speaking during a television show on Tuesday morning, blamed his woes on external forces which he did not name but revealed that the fights started when he placed a notice seeking to hire experts to help the MCAs in their oversight role. His proposal then was that the county assembly services board employs lawyers, doctors and engineers to help the MCAs in their duties. “When the executive noticed the manner in which we wanted to improve our oversight, they hatched a plot to remove me,” said Mr Oloo. When put to task to explain his relationship with Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o, Mr Oloo termed it cordial but questioned the county boss’s silence over the incidents that have been happening in the assembly. RELATIONSHIP CORDIAL “Like me and you, the governor could be misadvised. Our relationship is cordial but he cannot lie that he does not know what is going on,” he said. He maintained that he will fight for what is rightfully his by following the rule of law. Mr Oloo also read malice in the timing of his “ouster”. “Don’t you find it interesting that I am charged in court then immediately impeachment proceedings are started against me? This is corruption fighting back, I know, but I will be back soon,” said Mr Oloo. He dismissed the stand taken by the Kisumu County ODM branch officials, saying he has not received any communication from the party’s headquarters asking him to step aside.  