The Africa Independent Pentecostal Church (AIPCA) Laikipia East Diocese has demanded an apology from local Woman Representative Catherine Waruguru for allegedly disrupting service on Sunday. Drama ensued at AIPCA church in Nanyuki when Ms Waruguru and her supporters stormed the church as nominated MP Maina Kamanda was addressing worshipers. EMBRACE BBI Mr Kamanda was asking worshippers to embrace the Building Bridges Initiative taskforce that was established by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Presiding Bishop Ndirangu Ngunjiri, who is the head of Laikipia East Diocese, ordered Ms Waruguru out of the church saying she had not been invited. The bishop said the Ms Waruguru’s supporters stormed the church, forcing Mr Kamanda to leave through another door to avert possible clash similar to the one he recently had with Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro. The bishop said he ejected Ms Waruguru and her supporters from the church with the help of police officers. “We were shocked to see Laikipia woman representative storm the church with the intention of disrupting the service in the company of goons. They started shouting "mama yetu,” Mr Ngunjiri said. APOLOGISE The bishop appealed to political leaders to stop manipulating youths to disrupt church services. Mr Ngunjiri called on Ms Waruguru to apologise to God and to Laikipia East Diocese leadership to avert a curse. Ms Waruguru and Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri are members of Tanga Tanga, a Jubilee group allied to Deputy President William Ruto while Mr Kamanda is in the Kieleweke team that supports Uhuru-Raila pact. The woman rep later walked out of the church and addressed her supporters at Thingithu Estate where she lashed out at Mr Kamanda and the bishop. DEVELOPMENT Ms Waruguru accused the nominated MP of sabotaging infrastructural development projects in the county when he chaired the National Assembly Transport committee in the 11th Parliament. “This man (Kamanda) has the habit of abusing leaders in the name of BBI. He has abused Laikipia leadership just because of supporting DP Ruto's 2022 presidential bid,” she said. “He tried to harass (Ndindi) Nyoro and now he has come to Laikipia to intimidate us. He should stick to Nairobi politics,” she said.  