IN DOHA Africa Under-20 400 metres champion, Mary Moraa, on Monday qualified for the semi-final of women’s 400m race at the 2019 World Athletics Championships in Doha. Moraa, who finished second at the 2017 World Under-18 Championships and fourth at 2018 World Under-20 Championships, timed 51.85 seconds to finish third in her race and qualify for Tuesday’s semi-final which will be held at 9.50pm. Moraa, who is seeking to make the transition to the senior ranks in style, shook off an injury she had sustained in Sunday’s mixed relays to compete in women’s 400m heats. “I have run well here, which is good thing. But I had sustained an injury during the mixed relays which did not however affect me in the race today,” Moraa said. “I thank God for enabling me overcome that setback to reach the semi-finals, where I hope to raise Kenya’s flag high,” Moraa added. Moraa said her strategy in the semi-finals will be to start well and to take chances that come her way in the race. “Anything is possible and if I get up and prepare well, I will stand the same chance of winning the race as the others. I have come from far in my career and my desire has always been to raise Kenya’s flag high in the sprints which has been dominated by athletes from South Africa and Jamaica. Moraa, who is seeking to make a transition to the senior ranks in style, said running in the semis alone comes with special responsibilities. “It is normal to feel pressure because I will be the only Kenyan athlete in the race going forward. I will fight to the end,” she added. Kenya’s other competitor in the race, Hellen Syombua, finished sixth in the first heat in 57:07 and missed out on a semi-final slot. America’s Phylis Francis won the heat in 50.77 to qualify for tonight’s semi-final match alongside second-placed Sada Williams (52.14) from Barbados and Czech Republic’s Lada Vandrova (52.23) who finished third. Syombua, who threw up after her semi-final heat, needed medical attention after race. “I had been fine heading to tonight’s race but I came up against stronger opponents. I am also just coming from an injury and I have not quite hit top form which is a key ingredient,” Syombua, who has now shifted her focus to qualifying for the Olympics, told Nation Sport in Doha. At the same time, the athlete announced that she would step up to 800 metres. “This was my last race in 400m. I will shift to 800m going forward,” she said. The first three athletes from the six heats qualified for the semi-finals alongside the fastest six athletes.  