Mombasa tycoon Ali Punjani, who is being sought by police over drug trafficking, filed an anticipatory bail in the High Court Wednesday. Mr Punjani, who is out of the county, made the application through his lawyer Jared Magolo. MEDICAL CONDITION Mr Punjani said that he has been threatened with immediate arrest when he arrives in the country from abroad where he is seeking medical attention. Mr Magolo argue in the application that Mr Punjani had intended to come back on August 26 but his medical condition did not allow him then. He that Mr Punjani is scheduled to come back any time now. “No charge has been preferred or any reason given for the threat and arrest of Mr Punjani,” argued Mr Magolo in the application. According to the application filed at the High Court in Mombasa, Mr Punjani’s house was searched and nothing was recovered. Mr Magolo argued that on August 13, Mr Punjani’s palatial residence was searched in the presence of his advocates and nothing incriminating was found. “As indicated in the search certificate, the purported reason for search was the suspicion of dealing in narcotics,” the application said. According to the application, the officers took many of Mr Punjani’s documents which included a title deed, bank books, cheque books, electronics, bank slips and records, and log books without any good reason. Mr Magolo says that without any good reasons, five people found in Mr Punjani’s house were arrested and taken to a court in Shanzu where there was no charge preferred. “The application was later dismissed and those to be arrested released and file closed,” says Mr Magolo. ARREST ON ARRIVAL Mr Magolo further says that there continues to be a threat of arresting Mr Punjani as soon as he arrives in the country without giving any reasons. He says that Mr Punjani was out of the county seeking medical attention and that he has committed no crime. “It is clear breach of the applicants’ right that he seeks to be released on bond to prevent unnecessary arrest,” says Mr Magolo. Police in Mombasa had said that upon his arrival, Mr Punjani will be arrested for interrogation. “We will arrest him the minute he gets into the country. We want him to come and explain to us where he got all his wealth. We got a lot of cheques, title deeds and more than Sh63,000 from his house during our crackdown,” said outgoing Mombasa police boss Johnston Ipara. Mr Ipara, who has since been transferred to Uasin Gishu, had maintained that the businessman remains a drug trafficking suspect as they believe he is directly or indirectly involved in the narcotics trade. The tycoon was admitted to Asian Heart Institute in India early last month where he underwent open-heart surgery, according to his personal assistant.  