Harambee Stars and Uganda Cranes played to an entertaining friendly match played at the Moi International Sports Center in Kasarani on Sunday afternoon. Uganda settled into the match fast and deservedly took the lead in the 22nd minute, Emmanuel Okwi beating Patrick Matasi from close range. Harambee Stars tactician Francis Kimanzi pulled out Michael Kibwage after the breather, Johnstone Omurwa taking his place. Eric Ouma made a good run on the left flank and found Ayub Timbe with a perfect pass with China based winger wasting no time in dropping in a cross to the box that Kenneth Muguna turned in for the equalizer in the 51st minute. Kimanzi lauded his charges saying he was particularly impressed by the new call ups that played. “We must think of the future even as we try to build the team with upcoming matches in mind and it is with this in mind that I gave several players an opportunity and I must admit I have been surprised with Lawrence Juma for instance. It is good to watch a player making his debut enjoying his work in midfield. I was also impressed with Omurwa he did a fantastic job in the second half. We took time to settle into the match while Uganda were in it from the onset. I had to take off Collins Agade early since we needed pace from the midfield and Whyvone did well when he came in. I’m happy with the performance and we will work on improving on this with two more friendlies next month. After that I believe we will be ready to face Egypt,” he added. Uganda Cranes coach Abdallah Mubiru was also impressed with his players and the outcome of the game. “It was a very entertaining game and I’m sure the fans enjoyed it. I had a couple of new players and I am impressed with their performance. They did well against a very good side and we will now work on improving from this to get better,” he said after the match. Former Gor Mahia midfielder Khalid Aucho tested Patrick Matasi with a hard shot in the 4th minute, but the Kenyan custodian did well to parry it back into play. Uganda were at it again six minutes later with youngster Allan Okello forcing Matasi into a finger tip save with a beautiful free kick after Eric Ouma fouled Luwaga Kizito on the edge of the box. Cranes got the elusive goal in the 22nd minute, Okwi getting past Joash Onyango to slot past the advancing Matasi for the opener. Eric Johanna could have levelled matters at the half hour mark, but Cranes keeper Charles Lukwago did well to punch his hard shot away. With five minutes left before the breather, Kenya rested debutant Collins Agade, Whyvonne Isuza taking his place Johnstone Omurwa replaced Michael Kibwage in resumption. Harambee Stars now looked settled and started threatening upfront. Ouma initiated a fast attack from the back that resulted in Ayub Timbe feeding Muguna with an inviting pass in the 51st minute, the Gor Mahia captain simply tapping in for the equaliser. Cranes keeper Lukwago did well to block Olunga’s goal bound shot in the 57th minute as Kenya continued their upward trajectory. Kimanzi replaced debutant Samuel Olwande with Nicholas Meja in the 69th minute while Cranes rested the injured Khalid Aucho, Muzamir Mutyaba taking his place. Ten minutes later, Boniface Muchiri also came in to make his national team debut by replacing Eric Johanna while Duke Abuya took Muguna’s place. Uganda brought in Bright Anukani for Allan Okello in the 88th minute, but the final chance fell on Kenya as Muchiri’s rasping shot hit the upright in the dying minutes of the match. Football Kenya Federation has lined up two more friendlies for Harambee Stars next month; away to Libya in Morocco and a home game against Mozambique.  