A section of leaders from Murang’a County have demanded an apology from Central Organisation of Trader Unions (Cotu) Secretary-General Francis Atwoli over his use of the term “washenzi” (uncivilised) in reference to people from central Kenya. Angered by Mr Atwoli’s remarks, the leaders have threatened to disrupt Labour Day celebrations which he is expected to preside over. Mr Atwoli, who spoke during a Cotu prayer rally on Sunday at St Stephen’s ACK Church in Nairobi, intimated that President Uhuru Kenyatta, who is from central Kenya, is being intimidated following the “handshake” with opposition leader Raila Odinga. Mr Atwoli said that “the Kikuyus of yesteryears could not be intimidated to allow for two centres of power”. CABINET POSITIONS He intimated that even when Mr Odinga declared his support for former President Mwai Kibaki, he was not involved in forming the government but was only invited to State House to either accept or decline ministerial positions offered to him. “We can’t have two centres of powers in the same government. Na nyinyi Wakikuyu wa kisasa, nyinyi ni washenzi sana. Aliyesema Mwai Kibaki tosha alikuwa Raila. Wakaandikana MoU. Raila aliitwa kule Sagana kama Cabinet imekiwhisha akaambiwatake this or leave it. So tell President Uhuru Kenyatta he should not be intimidated. (You Kikuyus of nowadays are uncivilised. Even Raila Odinga who declared his support for former President Mwai Kibaki was only invited to Sagana State Lodge after the Cabinet was formed and told to either take the positions offered to him or to leave. So, tell President Uhuru Kenyatta that he should not be intimidated),” Mr Atwoli said on Sunday. NATIONAL COHESION Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege said Mr Atwoli’s remarks were a threat to national cohesion, which President Kenyatta always emphasises on. Ms Chege said the Cotu boss needs to be reprimanded and asked to retract the statement and apologise to the Kikuyu community. The woman rep urged the National Cohesion and Integration Commission to summon Mr Atwoli so that he can expound on his remarks. “The Agikuyu community does not compromise of people of a lesser god. Mr Atwoli must apologise to the community because failure to do so will be setting a very bad precedence to other people who think they can insult or underrate other communities,” she said. Ms Chege was speaking Tuesday in Kenol town when she issued bursary cheques to secondary school students. DISPARAGED COMMUNITY At the same time, Murang’a County Assembly Majority Leader Eric Kamande warned that should Mr Atwoli fail to apologise to the people of central Kenya by Tuesday evening, they would disrupt the Labour Day celebrations which Mr Atwoli would be presiding. He said Murang’a is the cradle of the Agikuyu and Mr Atwoli’s remarks had downgraded the county’s people and the community at large. “Let him be warned, we shall disrupt his meeting should he fail to apologise and we will follow it up with mass protests,” Mr Kamande said. Mr Habile, the youth chairman at the Murang’a County Assembly, said they would also launch a national campaign to urge residents who are members of Cotu to leave the trade union following Mr Atwoli’s remarks. “Mr Atwoli must understand that majority of Cotu contributors are from this region and by insulting them he is just unthankful. We shall convince them to move out of the union,” he said.  