Promotion-chasing Ushuru and Wazito bounced back to winning ways in the National Super League (NSL) after claiming the scalps of Administration Police (AP) and Bidco United respectively on Wednesday. After losing 2-1 to Shabana in Kisii at the weekend, the Ken Kenyatta coached Ushuru recovered to hit AP 2-1 at Camp Toyoyo through goals scored by Victor Ochieng and Brian Yakhama. Wazito, who had slipped to a 1-0 away loss to Eldoret Youth last weekend, narrowly edged out stubborn Bidco United 1-0 in a double header at Camp Toyoyo to keep pressure on Ushuru. Bidco coach Antony Akhulia said Wazito players wasted a lot of time after scoring the opening goal in the second half. The Thika-based side face top tier outfit Kenya Commercial bank (KCB)in the SportPesa Shield quarter-final on Sunday. In Kisii, hosts Shabana were forced to a 1-1 draw by visiting Eldoret Youth at Gusii Stadium, a few days after an impressive 2-0 win over Migori at the same venue.At position 10, Shabana under the tutelage of Gilbert Selebwa are still in contention for a return to the SportPesa Premier League. Selebwa said he was satisfied with the one point saying there is no easy matches in the second tier. “Last season, the two teams were playing in the same level before they were all promoted to National Super League (NSL) so they know each other well,” Selebwa said. “I know there is a lot of pressure from locals as far as promotion to Sportpesa Premier League(SPL) is concerned but I want to be very clear that no team that was promoted from division one is above us, we are improving one game after the other,” he said. His Eldoret Youth counterpart Anderson Sango said the club was aiming to finish in the top five at the end of the season. “In first leg we played many away matches something that really cost us but we are determined to win all our home matches in second leg,” he said. On Sunday, Eldoret Youth will host Ushuru while Shabana will be away to Bidco. Results Wazito 1 Bidco United 0; Ushuru 2 AP 1; Shabana 1 Eldoret Youth 1; Fortune Sacco 1 St Joseph’s 1, Kibera All Stars 1 Kisumu All Stars 1; Green Commandos 2 FC Talanta 2.  