A driver linked to the disappearance of two Cuban doctors in Mandera has been detained for 15days. Magistrate Muthoni Nzibe on Monday directed that Issac lbrein Elbow, who was arrested in Mandera, be detained at a police station in Nairobi. The court issued the directions after the Anti-Terror Police Unit claimed that the driver is suspected to have been involved in the abduction of doctors Assel Herera Correa and Landyz Rodrigues. According to ATPU, information gathered so far show that the suspect was involved in the plot to kidnap the two Cuban doctors and that there was communication between him and the attackers. ATPU told court that the suspect was flown from Mandera on April 14 for detailed investigations to be conducted on his possible involvement and facilitation of the kidnapping. “Based on the investigations and several leads being followed up by our team, there are compelling reasons to warrant the detention of the said suspect pending a detailed probe on terror related activities,” a state lawyer said. The court was further requested not to disclose in the open which police station the suspect will be detained for obvious security reasons. Dr Correa (a general physician) and Dr Rodriguez (a surgeon) were abducted by armed assailants who ambushed and blocked the vehicle ferrying them to work in Mandera town. One of the police officers guarding the medics was killed instantly while the one escaped with injuries. It was the second abduction of foreigners in five months by suspected Al-Shabaab militia who are linked to the Al-Qaeda terror group. Mandera Governor Ali Roba condemned the attack and appealed to the elders to initiate talks with their counterparts in Bulahawa and ensure that the two return to Kenya safely. Mandera elders left for Somalia on Friday to negotiate with their counterparts the release of the two doctors. Elders in Somali community are highly regarded and have the ability to resolve dangerous and sometimes complex issues.   Medics were abducted by suspected Al-Shabaab militants on Friday.