The Laibons (Lenana School) versus Old Cambrians (Nairobi School) Charity Golf Derby held at Karen Country Club and attracted a record 189 players. And as expected, the Laibons won with a total of 692 points. They beat their traditional rivals by a big margin of 36 points as the Cambrians had posted a total of 656. The total points was based on the scores of the best 20 players from each side who made the cut. Besides the prizes for the main competing schools, there were a number of other team and individual prizes. The best Laibon was Lappset Director General, Sylvester Kasuku, who carded 37 points, beating Patrick Kariuki on countback. The Best Old Cambrian was Kiragu Kimani on 36 points, who won on count back from former football and rugby star Joe “JJ” Masiga. In the other school alumni team categories, St Mary’s team of Njee Muturi, John Munge, Ian Kabiru and Ngotho won the Boys Alumni Shield on 134 points whilst Alliance Girls Team of Lucy Kisia, Lucy Maina, Nellius Kariuki and Rachel Koigi took the Girls Alumni Shield on 136 points. Former Vet Lab captain Paresh Jai a Laibon took the Best Senior Golfer on 33 points. In the guest category, for non Laibons and Old Cambrians, the men’s winner was James Githinji, who posted 41 points, while the ladies prize went to Rhoda Mwebesa with a score of 38 nines. The nines which were open to all players, went to Njee Muturi on 23 points and Nicholas Koigi who carded 22 points. The tournament raised over Sh1 million part of which will be used for the construction of a swimming pool at Lenana School, while the rest will support needy students. At Thika Sports Club, six players qualified to play in the 2019 KCB Karen Masters Pro-Am in June. The six to be led by Gathuri Wanjau qualified during the third leg of the KCB Road to Karen Masters golf series held at the par 72 Thika Sports Club course, where Wanjau playing off 17 emerged the overall winner with 41 points. The other qualifiers are Moses Mburu, who also scored 41 points. Ann Kariuki was the lady winner on 37. Other winners were staff Martin Kiambi (39), guest winner Irene Kimeu (39), and junior golfer Simon Ngugi who was given the wild card.  