When you got married, you thought you’d be different. And would never ever feel “too tired”. And to begin with, that’s just how it was. Until, one day, you suddenly realised you’d gone 10 whole days without touching one another. And hadn’t missed it once. Maybe that’s because your newly married self understood something about you that somehow you’ve now forgotten. And maybe it’s worth remembering. SEX SLIPS It’s completely understandable how sex slips off the agenda. You’re too busy, too stressed, far too easily distracted, and somehow never in the mood. But there’s something special about kissing the man you love. Your husband can help you remember who you really are before you’re even aware that you’ve forgotten. Yes, you’re whatever you do at work. And chief cook and childminder at home. But you’re also a woman! And that’s a lovely thing to remember in your husband’s arms. If you want your husband to be a good man, you need to treat him like one. Men are simple to please. They just need food, appreciation, and sex. So feed him well, appreciate his efforts, and let him see you naked! It’s amazing what a man can achieve for a woman who makes him feel loved. BUSY LIFE Remember how you felt about each other when you first met? It’s still there. Underneath all the stress of your busy life, you still need one another. So every night after the children go to sleep, make a point of finding each other again. And remind yourself that you’ve become the woman you hoped you would. And then show your husband that he’s still the man of your dreams. And anyway, sex is such good fun. So why are we so quick to turn down the good things in life? Because making love is far and away the best couple time there is. And far easier to schedule than a date night! It can be a great workout if you do it right, so you can also let your gym membership go. Sex is also a complete escape from reality, and gets you out of your head for a while. It builds the trust between you, lets you communicate without words, improves your self-esteem, and boosts your whole mood. BED TIME ROUTINE So create a sex-friendly routine. Have a shared bedtime routine with your husband — including weekends — and get to bed a whole lot earlier. At the same time every day. And soon you’ll find that the two of you are making love together far more often. And that’s seriously worth while. Because deeply intimate married couples are the happiest group in society. Good sex also becomes especially important as you get older. Like you’ll have a better memory, because lots of good sex improves the brain regions that control your memory. And you’ll also look years younger! Because loving sex releases hormones that make the skin more elastic and youthful. And it all starts with going to bed earlier! nyumbayangu@me.com  