Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has castigated Deputy President William Ruto for referring to himself “hustler number one” when he is in fact “a billionaire who lives large and swims in money”. Speaking in Lamu, an agitated Mr Joho said DP Ruto does not seem to understand that the real hustlers are the millions of jobless graduates in the country, those struggling to eke out a living and the poor orphans, widows and the disabled who have been forced to live one day at a time, hopping that tomorrow will be better. MOCKERY According to Mr Joho, it is a big mockery to the Kenyan people for the DP to refer to himself as “hustler number one" when he lives in a home worth billions of shillings while many Kenyans are languishing in slums with thousands of others squatting after their land was grabbed. The governor told Dr Ruto to stop playing with the minds of Kenyans and lying to them that he is poor. “Stop moving around pretending that you are a hustler while you’re not. How can a hustler live in a mansion costing billions while travelling in more than five choppers? Stop confusing Kenyans and the world who know the real hustler is a person who has nothing, can’t afford anything even his daily bread. He wakes up without knowing what he will eat today or tomorrow. That’s the real hustler that we Kenyans know my friend,” said Mr Joho. ANTI-GRAFT WAR The Mombasa governor questioned why DP Ruto and the Tanga Tanga team are opposing the war against corruption in the county. He also asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to intensify the anti-graft war by ensuring those involved in any corruption scandal are arrested and charged no matter the positions they hold in government. Mr Joho said he is ready to be arrested if he is found to be corrupt. “I support the handshake initiated by President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga. Without the handshake, the country wouldn’t have unearthed the many corruption scandals revolving around key leaders in government. I really support the ongoing anti-graft war in the country. How can a leader oppose the fight against corruption? A thief is always a thief and they belong to jail,” said Mr Joho. HELD TO ACCOUNT Mr Joho said that apart from leaders having the responsibility to tell Kenyans the truth, there is also need for them to be held accountable for what they do while in leadership. “I want to tell President Uhuru Kenyatta that I am your number one follower and supporter of the ongoing anti-graft war. In fact, I want to make it clear that if I am involved in any corruption incidents, I am ready. Come for me. I’ll accept to be arrested, charged and pay for my mistakes. And anyone who is corrupt should also be arrested and charged no matter the position they hold in government. We’re leaders and we must be held to account,” said Mr Joho.  