Wazalendo kept a clean sheet when they beat Strathmore University Gladiators 1-0 to reclaim their men’s hockey Premier League lead over weekend at the City Park Stadium, Nairobi. It’s a weekend that Lakers paddled to the top of women’s Premier League after they claimed their first win of the season, beating Kenyatta University Titans 1-0 at City Park Stadium. John Rioba slotted home from a penalty corner in the 44th minute to hand Wazalendo their third consecutive victory that sent them back to the top with nine points, dislodging Western Jaguars on superior goal difference. Jaguars, who are enjoying their finest start to the season, also have nine points. Wazalendo had taken the league’s early lead two weeks ago when they handed former champions Nairobi Simba a 1-0 defeat. Jaguars were not in action last weekend, allowing Wazalendo the leeway to recapture the lead. Jaguars had the previous weekend stunned former champions Nairobi Simba and Parklands 2-1 and 3-2 to move top. They too had earlier shocked former champions Strathmore University Gladiators 2-0. Greensharks moved to third place in the league with six points after they downed Parklands 2-1. Nimrod Basonga put Sharks ahead in the 17th minute from a field goal, before Daniel Obunyasi made it two from a penalty corner in the 23rd minute. Erick Kidwaro struck back for Parklands with a field goal in the 30th minute, but Sharks withstood the pressure to successfully defend the score line for their second win of the season. Parklands had stretched Greensharks to the limit, before injuries to Allan Odongo and Harry Misati weakened their onslaught on Sharks, who cashed on it to carry the day. After forcing a stunning 1-1 draw against Strathmore Scorpions on Saturday, Judith Abayo would convert from the spot in the 11th minute to hand Lakers a 1-0 victory against the Titans Abayo had levelled from the spot in the 37th minute to secure a draw for Lakers against Strathmore, who had powered to the lead through Wendy Ayuma’s field goal in the 17th minute. Lakers now lead with five points with Strathmore falling second with four points, followed by defending champions Telkom and Amira Sailors also with four points each. Parkroad Badgers hammered Kisumu Youngsters 1-0 and Bungoma Farmers 4-1 to take command of the men’s Super League with 15 points. However, Badgers tie on points with second-placed Technical University of Kenya (TUK), who beat Kenyatta University Vultures 1-0 on Sunday. Meanwhile, the sixth round of the Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) Leagues ended with mixed developments after Dedan Kimathi University withdrew from the men’s Super League citing budgetary constraints. KHU Deputy match and Fixture Secretary, Moses Majiwa, disclosed that Kabarak University too have withdrawn from men’s National league so as to give them time to address internal disciplinary issues. “KHU will address the withdrawals according to the rules and regulations for the way forward, but it’s quite unfortunate,” said Majiwa, adding that the leagues are proving to be equally competitive with small margin scores being recorded. “This is good development, but we are concerned about many walkovers which we shall address in the coming weeks,” said Majiwa.  