Bandari Football Club wants AFC Leopards punished for failing to provide security during their SportPesa Premier League match at Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos on Sunday. The Dockers also want the police to arrest the AFC Leopards' stewards, whom they have accused of destroying their cameraman’s equipment, before stealing his phone when the match was in progress. The same stewards, according to Bandari in a report filed to the police, say poured sewage water on Bandari striker Yema Mwama when the teams were on the tunnel just before kick-off. “We want AFC Leopards to know that the days when teams were intimidating match officials to win matches are long gone. They must therefore be prepared to pay for the stolen phone and the damages to the camera which was destroyed beyond repair," Bandari Chief Executive Officer Edward Oduor, who was speaking to the Nation Sport from Machakos Central Police Station where they had gone to report the incident, said. According to Oduor, tension started building in the tunnel when one of the AFC stewards, whom they identified by his jacket number. sprinkled what looked like sewage water on striker Yema Mwama when the teams were entering the pitch from the tunnel. A brief scuffle ensued with Mwama landing some heavy blows and kicks on the steward, before he was restrained and normalcy resumed. Hell broke loose yet again when the stewards attacked Bandari kit manager Ali Abdallah also known as Allah, on the stands accusing him of been a Bandari witch doctor after Bandari’s equaliser. It was then that Bandari cameraman started taking pictures of the scuffle between the stewards and Ali, drawing the wrath on the fans who pelted him with stones before entering the pitch's perimeter fence to and destroyed his camera and took his phone. “This leniency must stop because there is no team which is above the law. It is time KPL cracked the whip by acting on the culprits whether it will mean docking some teams points, otherwise hooligans will take centre stage," Oduor said, adding that the Bandari cameraman is accredited to cover league matches and should have therefore been left to do his work. He also accused to match commissioner of biasness, saying the cameraman was attacked inside the pitch under the watchful eye of the official and the police with no action been taken.   Vincent Oburu's 16th minute opener was cancelled by Alex Orotomal in the 58th minute.