Kirinyaga County leaders want the findings of the Chesoni commission on the controversial 54,000-acre Mwea Trust land made public. They expressed concerns that the government has taken too long to release the findings, yet tension continues to mount over the disputed land. The dispute over the ownership of the land has been raging for decades, pitting residents of Embu and Kirinyaga counties. Led by the Jubilee Party Vice Chairman Mureithi Kang'ara, the Kirinyaga leaders said releasing the report will end the protracted land row that has claimed lives and left other people maimed. KNOW REAL OWNERS "We would like to know the real owners of the land so that peace can prevail," said Mr Kang'ara. Former Ndia MP Kinyua Mbui noted that the commission was set up in 1990s through the directives of former president Daniel arap Moi to address the dispute surrounding the land. The commission, which sat in Kerugoya, sought views from locals and compiled a report which is now gathering dust as the different groups claiming ownership of the land continue fighting. "We are tired of waiting for the findings. The government should let us know who really owns the land so that fighting over it can come to an end," said Mr Mbui. CHAOS Speaking in Sagana town, the leaders said taxpayers’ money was spent by the commission and the truth of the matter should be made public. Recently, one person identified as Kennedy Muvevi was shot dead and six others injured by the police when chaos erupted in the area. In the past, several other people have died in chaos over the disputed land which is located in Embu County. Last week, Wiper party Kalonzo Musyoka visited the area and demanded that the government compensates the family of the young man who was killed by police. He also said the six shooting survivors should also be compensated as they are bed-ridden and cannot not work for a living. Mr Musyoka promised to put pressure on the government to ensure that the victims are compensated. "I will pursue the matter with the Attorney-General through my law firm because I want justice done,” Mr Musyoka said.   Wiper leader wants commission formed to establish the property's legal owners.