Rifts in the ruling Jubilee Party seem to be worsening as MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto plan to investigate alleged police insurance scandal to protest the withdrawal of their security detail. Some Rift Valley MPs have threatened to spearhead impeachment of Cabinet secretaries suspected to be undermining Dr Ruto. Some MPs from Mt Kenya say that the withdrawal of their bodyguards strengthened their support for Dr Ruto. In a show of their political clout, Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro said: “We will now demand answers over police insurance scandal in the Office of the President.” INFLATED COST Mr Nyoro, who is a member of Parliamentary Accounts Committee, said MPs will be demanding questions on why a company with the highest quotation was awarded a tender for police insurance yet there was a company that had quoted “a considerable amount of money”. “The committee has received documents with scary facts about a company that was awarded a tender for the police insurance and had quoted Sh1.7 billion, while we had other companies quoting Sh628 million but were not considered,” he said. He added: “Very soon tables will turn and those responsible in the Office of President must explain every detail." Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichungwa said some individuals are using their positions to instil fear among Dr Ruto's supporters. SECURITY Mr Ichungwa directed his anger at Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho, accusing him of undermining Dr Ruto. “Who is Kibicho to a DP elected by millions of people to furnish him with an itinerary of his movements?” he posed. “It is this kind of arrogance and impunity by civil servants that is undermining our Constitution, our national values and getting the nation into unnecessary political narratives,” he said. He said he had received death threats but vowed to stay put and always speak his mind. However, Mr Raila Odinga’s pointman in Murang’a, Mr Kamau Mweha, dismissed the pro-Ruto leaders as political novices “who have no agenda but to follow Dr Ruto for selfish gains”. “Their plot is doomed and won’t see the light of the day; wait until the President and Mr Odinga tour the region,” he told the Nation. SABOTAGE Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot, his Bomet counterpart Christopher Langat, Bureti MP Japheth Mutai and Mr Hillary Koskei (Kipkelion West) said senior government officers engaging in politics should quit their positions. “We are aware that some Cabinet secretaries, principal secretaries and heads of parastatals have been holding night meetings to plot how to bring down the Deputy President so that he does not succeed President Kenyatta in 2022,” said Mr Cheruiyot. Speaking in Bureti, Kericho County, the MPs said the level of insubordination the DP had been subjected to by the senior civil servants would not pass unchallenged. “We shall bring an impeachment motion again them. We will no longer sit back and watch as the DP is embarrassed in a clear case of insubordination by his juniors,” said Mr Cheruiyot. Mr Mutai said the infighting in Jubilee should end as it overshadows implementation of Big Four agenda. On Thursday, Jubilee secretary-general Raphael Tuju said impeachment is a legal process.   Gideon Moi and Ruto are battling for control of Rift Valley votes ahead of 2022 polls.