Ulinzi Warriors and Thunder will be in action in Kenya Basketball Federation Premier men’s Premier League in crucial first leg matches at Nyayo National Stadium Gymnasium this weekend. On Saturday, Thunder will take on Umoja from 4.30pm while rivals Ulinzi have a tricky date with newcomers Emyba on Sunday from 4.30pm. Fifteen first leg matches are lined up in Nairobi, Eldoret and Nakuru this weekend. Ulinzi and Thunder won their critical first leg matches last weekend to rise to the top of the table standings with 15 points. So far, each of the teams have won seven matches and lost one. Ulinzi Warriors avenged last year’s best-of-five series play-offs final defeat to Kenya Ports Authority by demolishing the dockers 92-54 at their KPA Makande Gymnasium backyard last weekend. Thunder, on the other hand, easily rocked Kenya College of Accountancy-University 54-46 to increase their points tally to 15. With three matches to conclude the first leg, Ulinzi Warriors and Thunder will be eyeing to garner two points to enhance their chances of finishing top at the end of the 12-team table standings. Umoja and Emyba, who were promoted to the Premier League this season, are not pushovers going by their performance in the first leg. Emyba, led by Thomas Kioko, beat KCA-U 54-50 last weekend to climb the ladder to third position with 13 points. Having won four matches and lost five, Emyba will start as favourites to win against the varsity students to keep their third position intact. Ulinzi’s victory against KPA revived their hopes of reclaiming the league title they last won in 2015. Coach William Balozi will no doubt field shooting guard Victor Bosire, Teberius Menya, forwards William Ochieng and Eric Mutoro as they go flat for two points. Thunder will parade forward Faheem Juma, Kevin Chogo and shooting guard Griffins Ligare against Umoja. Umoja have only won one match and lost five and pressure will be on them to upset Thunder to revive the play-off hopes. Umoja who lost 44-58 to Equity Bank in their last assignment, will again meet KCA-U on Sunday in their tight two match programme. In the women’s Premier League, coach Justus Akhwesa’s newly formed Tangit Sparks will face Storms on Saturday from 3pm. Tangit Sparks celebrated their first victory after beating hosts Western Delight 52-35 in Kakamega last weekend. Footprints will play two unpredictable women’s Division One league first leg matches against Riara University Saturday and JKUAT on Sunday. Footprints lost 48-32 to KCA-U last weekend and whether coach Juma Kent has resolved the problem of raising a full team remains to be seen. University of Nairobi’s Terrorists have tricky match against Blazers one week after having registered a 54-41 victory over Lions. In Nakuru, hosts Egerton University will entertain newcomers Mustangs at Menengai High School while Eldonets will host Strathmore University in Eldoret. On Sunday, Umoja will entertain KCA-U, Trailblazers will square it out with Kenya Airports Authority while NIBs to tackle Riara University in the men’s Division One League competition. Saturday’s fixtures at Nyayo: Terrorists v Blazers (9.30am), Zetech University v Oryx (10.30am), KDF Morans v KAA (1.30pm), Footprints v Riara University (3pm), Tangit Sparks v Storms (3pm), Umoja v Thunder (4.30pm). Eldoret: Eldonets v Strathmore University (2pm). Menengai High School-Nakuru: Egerton University v Mustangs (9am), Renegades v Mustangs (12pm). Sunday: At Nyayo: Riara University v NIBs (9am), Footprints v JKUAT (10.30am), KDF Morans v Pirates (12pm), Trailblazers v KAA (1.30pm), Umoja v KCA-U (3pm), Emyba v Ulinzi Warriors (4.30pm).   Bosire and Mwangi are among the seven top players who jumped ship from the Dockers to other clubs.