The fourth edition of the Energy Journalism Excellence Awards (Ejea) has been cancelled indefinitely following complaints by journalists. Petroleum Principal Secretary Andrew Kamau on Wednesday told the Nation that they called off the event on the advice of the Media Council of Kenya (MCK). The move came hours after journalists turned down invitations to be part of the celebrations at Safari Park Hotel in Nairobi. The Kenya Editors Guild and Kenya Union of Journalists, which defend media freedom and independence, questioned the integrity of the awards given that Kenya Pipeline Company (KPC) and several other sponsors are under active investigation over grand corruption. The two organisations had been invited to the ceremony by KPC acting Managing Director Hudson Andambi. The event is organised by the Energy and Petroleum ministries and involves companies in the energy sector. NO RATIONALE The PS noted that the event was meant for journalists - to honour excellence in energy journalism. As such, Mr Kamau explained, organisers and sponsors did not see the rationale for proceeding with it yet the journalists backed out. In a phone interview, he said, “If you invite a guest to have lunch in your house and the guest tells you he will not show up, do you proceed with the plan?” He added, “We did not come up with these celebrations. It was the journalists’ idea. They said they wanted to learn more about energy so they could report more accurately. It seems they feel they have learned enough." MCK'S POSITION The MCK confirmed in a statement that it had advised the Petroleum ministry to put off the gala. Chief Executive Officer David Omwoyo said they made this decision to allow consultations. Mr Omwoyo noted that the guild and the KUJ "expressed reservations about the awards, especially the financing, timing and independence of the journalists, who cannot ethically be awarded by subject of media coverage". He said these issues were important. The CEO said the council appreciated the ministries' efforts to invest in media development and public information but advised caution so such investments are not seen as attempts to influence coverage. He noted that such awards need to be organised by independent bodies to protect integrity.   Editors Guild and journalists' union question the integrity of the awards.