Busia, Five Ugandan police officers were on Saturday arrested by the Kenyan police for alleged breach of security protocol. The officers attached to the Field Forces Unit and based at the Tororo Police Station in Busia District, who were later released, were arrested at the border for allegedly crossing into Kenya illegally. The Ugandan security agents were intercepted and arrested at Korinda police checkpoint on Busia-Kisumu highway while pursuing a truck carrying contraband for nearly five kilometres into the Kenyan territory. The patrol truck, which the police officers were using, was also impounded by the Kenya police authorities. One of the witnesses told Daily Monitor that after the arrest, the officers were disarmed by the Kenyan police officers and taken to the Busia-Kenya Police Station for interrogation. UNMARKED BORDER Mr John Nyoike, the Busia Kenya county police commander, confirmed the development. “They were intercepted after they unknowingly entered into Kenya through Buteba and Alupe as they pursued the truck carrying illegal goods,” he said. Mr Nyoike said the police officers found themselves in Kenya because the boundary is not marked. “We have no problems with the officers because they were pursuing the truck and because our borders are not marked, they incidentally found themselves on the other side of the border,” Mr Nyoike said. He added: “The police officers were released but the Kenya police have embarked on investigations to find out the circumstances under which the truck, which was bound for Kampala, found its way to Kenya.” DEMARCATION He, however, said occupants of the Ugandan registered truck that was carrying illegal goods escaped after the interception of Uganda police officers. “The truck was carrying scrap metal, old car batteries, car wheels, radiators, among other assortment,” he said. Mr Jacob Narengo, the Busia Kenya county commissioner, said lack of boundary marks on the borders was making it hard for police officers to differentiate between Uganda and Kenya territories. “We have similar landscapes, same people speaking similar languages and in the absence of clearly marked boundaries. It is hard for the officers to know whether they were in Kenya or Uganda,” Mr Narengo, said. Mr John Njoroge, a businessman, said there was need for a clear demarcation of the boundary to solve the continuous breach of security protocol, which may in future result into war.  