Kenya Railway Golf Club put up a strong fight to grab a one-point lead in day one of the 2019 Tannahill Shield at the par 72 Royal Nairobi Golf Club on Friday. The Railway side shocked Limuru with an 8-0 victory, then beat hosts and defending champions Royal 5-3 for a total of 13 points. During their match with the hosts, Railway's pair of Samuel Njoroge and George Felix halved with Jay Sandhu and Quram Bhatti, then Railway's John Lejirimah and Kash Padam beat Rachit Patel and Kevin Juma 4-3. The only Royal pair to win against Railway was that of veteran Joseah Kogo and Jatinder Thethy, who beat Adelbert Omooria and Anthony Muhoro 3-2. However, the youthful pair of long hitter John Mburu and Edwin Murungi assured Railway of a victory after beating the pair Joshua Ichangi and Korby Gatiramu by two holes. But Royal beat Limuru 6-2 for a total of nine points at the close of the day for a three-way third tie place, with Vet Lab and the hot charging Western. Vet Lab beat Windsor 5-3 and halved (4-4) with Sigona, while Western won 5-3 against Mombasa and halved with Muthaiga (4-4). Sigona on the other hand, took maximum points from Windsor for a total of 12 points to close the opening round in second place. Meanwhile, Muthaiga finished sixth with eight points, just one point better than Mombasa. The going was however tough for Windsor, who ended the day with only three points, while Limuru was last with two points. On Saturday, Vet Lab will take on Western and Limuru from 7.30am on the first tee, where Royal is drawn against Sigona and Mombasa from 8am. At the back nine, Muthaiga will tackle Railway and Windsor while in the afternoon’s third round, Muthaiga will battle it out with Sigona and Limuru from 1pm at the first nine, where Vet Lab is set to take on Railway and Mombasa. Defending champions Royal will be at the back nine from 1.15pm against Western and Windsor. Speaking after the close of round one, Royal Coach Charan Thethy said his team would have done better in the first round if they did not lose some holes. “We had a great chance of taking a lead, but some of our pairs lost some holes which were there for the taking. But we will put up a strong fight particularly in the second round where we are playing against two strong teams," said Thethy on Friday.  