Police have detained a prominent Nairobi lawyer on allegations of defiling five of his 11 children and a house help. The children are aged between six and 14. The matter would have still been under wraps had the lawyer not taken the children and house help for a medical check-up at MP Shah Hospital in Parklands on Tuesday night. While at the hospital, the lawyer is said to have requested for HIV and gonorrhoea tests to be conducted on three of the five children, a boy and two girls. Doctors were concerned on why he wanted HIV tests carried out and suspected that the lawyer had reason to believe that they had been defiled. As required by law, the medics asked the lawyer if he had reported the matter to the police, but he did not give believable answers. ARRESTED Meanwhile, one of his adopted children told the doctor attending to him in confidence that his “uncle” had formed a habit of defiling them. This prompted the hospital’s management to call officers from Parklands Police Station next door. Detectives from the station arrived within minutes and placed the lawyer under arrest. About an hour later, officers from the Anti-Human Trafficking and Child Protection Unit from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) academy arrived to take over investigations, led by Grace Ndirangu. The children spent the night at the hospital in order to undergo treatment. They were placed under State protection on Wednesday morning and driven to the Anti-Human Trafficking Child Protection Unit in South B. PENALTY On Friday, Gigiri OCPD Richard Muguai told the Saturday Nation that the matter is under investigation, and the lawyer will be taken to court soon. “He is still under our custody,” said the OCPD. “This is a very serious matter that needs time to investigate,” he said. If found guilty, the lawyer faces up to life imprisonment based on the number of charges levelled against him. “The matter has been taken over by the DCI headquarters. The only thing we are doing so far is having the suspect within our custody,” said Mr Muguai. We cannot reveal the identity of the lawyer for purposes of protecting the children. He has however previously been a director at a state regulatory board and runs a big law firm with offices in Nairobi, Garissa, Mombasa and Machakos. His Nairobi office is near City Hall. CLIENTS He operates from the office together with a team of nine lawyers who are under his payroll. His specialty is conveyance. Listed among his clients is MP Shah Hospital, where he took the children for treatment, Parliamentary Service Commission, Nairobi County Government, Kitui County Government, seven banks and three saccos. The lawyer is a known polygamist whose first wife died in July 2017. She was buried at the lawyer’s rural home in Masinga, Machakos County. The wife was a managing partner at the law firm.  