With the Abbott World Marathon Majors Series moving to London on Sunday, athletics fans in the North Rift are angling to follow the eagerly awaited race with various entertainment places organizing live viewing sessions. Bank of Africa – who have been holding marathon viewing events for the last five years - will again host a viewing of Sunday’s London Marathon at Keellu Resort in Iten, the town dubbed “the home of champions.” The “BOA Viewerthons” provide a forum for the bank’s customers, athletes and local fans to interact as they cheer their very own. They will be supported by DStv whose SuperSport channel will broadcast the race live on SuperSport 8 from 10:55am, but athletes are expected at Keellu Resort from 1.30am to attend a workshop organised by Bank of Africa, DStv and the Kenya Revenue Authority. In Eldoret, motor company Isuzu will host a race viewing at the Klique Club where they will be rooting for world marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge who is an ambassador of the Isuzu brand. Both at Keellu and Klique, organisers will offer free breakfast to athletes registering for the viewing parties. “Bank of Africa is keen to promote the development of both elite and upcoming athletes who have made Kenya proud. The Bank’s mission is to grow the economies in which it operates in, and athletes are not only a Kenyan heritage but an integral part of the Kenyan economy,” said the bank’s Head of Marketing, Jimmi Wanjohi Saturday. “The bank is a strategic enabler for the athletes not only in the track but to invest and develop as future entrepreneurial success stories. The Bank is championing a healthy culture to encourage its staff to run, stay fit and have fun through its staff “Road Runners” Team." "We will endeavour to seek an opportunity for the Bank of Africa staff to have a session with the runners in the course of their training in the camps and to learn values of discipline and resilience which is key to the success of the runners.” The Bank’s Mwanariadha product offering is tailor-made to suit athletes with forex exchange flexibility, online and mobile banking coupled with access to loan facilities. The London Marathon, part of the six World Marathon Majors will see two of Kenya’s biggest names Kipchoge and Wilson Kipsang, past and present world record holders, respectively, meet in the English capital. Kipchoge will be looking to add another win to his victories in 2015, 2016 and 2018 while for Kipsang will be seeking to reclaim the title he won in 2014. Kipsang also owns the Keellu Resort where Saturday’s viewing will be held and where his family, fans and training partners will assemble hoping to see him upset Kipchoge.   He has won 11 out of 12 races in his marathon career.