Umaru Kasumba and Cliff Nyakeya scored a brace each before coming off as Sofapaka and Mathare United played out a thrilling 2-2 draw in a SportPesa Premier League match at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos on Sunday. After a barren first half, Kasumba opened the scoring two minutes after restart with a low strike past Allan Owiny in the Mathare post. Kasumba chested down Stephen Waruru's pass on his first contribution in the game after replacing Mike Oduor on 46 minutes, before finding the back of the net. Six minutes later, Nyakeya levelled with a first time shot from inside the box after an awe-inspiring interplay with Chris Oduor. In the 58th minute, Waruru, whose introduction brought impetus in the Batoto ba Mungu forward line teed up Kasumba with a defence splitter that the latter beat the offside trap, before rounding Owiny to place the ball in an empty net and restore Sofapaka lead with his 14th goal of this campaign. He was stretchered off the pitch with an injury on 64 minutes paving way for Pistone Mutamba. Nyakeya struck home his second and ninth goal of the season in the 66th minute after combining well with Chris Oduor. The seventh draw in 22 meetings between the two sides leaves Sofapaka second on 49 points, nine ahead of fifth placed Mathare after 26 rounds. Umar Kasumba thought he had broken the deadlock on 41 minutes, but his goal ruled for offside to sum up an end-to-end first half. Titus Achesa floated in a cross from the left six minutes after centre referee Ahmed Athman blew the opening whistle, but Mathare goalkeeper Allan Owiny and Kasumba collided before going down for treatment. By the first quarter, the game turned physical forcing stoppage as players were attended to by their respective doctors. Mathare winger James Kinyanjui was a constant menace on the left wing, but all his pinpoint crosses went begging. On 30 minutes, his promising cross troubled defender Moussa Omar and his goalkeeper Justine Ndikumana resulting to a corner that bore no fruits. A frantic action towards the break by the Slum Boys yielded no fruits save for entertaining a few fans on the stands led by Harambee Stars coach Sebastien Migne and his assistant Nicholas Bourriquet, that cheered every touch and tackle stringing passes with ease. Sofapaka next host Posta Rangers as Mathare welcome Zoo Kericho on Wednesday.  