The annual Tannahill Shield golf tournament, Kenya’s biggest inter-club amateur event whose 2019 edition is on this weekend, on Wednesday received a boost of Sh750,000 from Jamii Telecom as part of the company’s sponsorship for this year’s tournament. This is the second year in a row Jamii Telecom is supporting the Tannahill Shield which is being contested by a total of nine teams. Jamii Telecom, who for a number of years have been sponsoring the Professional the PGK (Professional Golfers of Kenya) Masters, join Betway Kenya and other sponsors in this year’s Tannahill. Speaking during the cheque presentation, Jamii Telecom’s Head of Business Development Andrew Maru said they are committed in supporting the prestigious event. “This is an important golf event in the country with a great opportunity to grow to an international level and we would like to be part of this development," said Maru. Royal vice chairman Charles “Serikal’’ Omondi said he was happy that Jamii Telecom had agreed to partner with Royal in a three-year deal with effect from 2018. “It is our hope that this partnership will continue to grow as we prepare to mark 100 years of this great event. I would like other corporates in the country to come and join us as we build the event to an international level," said Omondi. Royal sponsorship director Charles Kariuki said the club is planning to introduce entertainment in the future just like the Magical Kenya Open village at Karen which was the main attraction during this year’s Open. “Tannahill is usual held during the Easter holidays and I believe with good entertainment programme such as what Karen offered during the Kenya Open, the event can attract many Kenyans as we endeavour to grow it to an international level," said Kariuki. Club captain Bernard Mwaura said there is a possibility of increasing the participating teams in next year’s tournament. During last year’s tournament, Karen Country Club was relegated after a poor performance. “While we look forward to welcome the Karen team back next year, there is a chance of Thika Sports Club's participation as we move towards our centenary celebrations in five years time," said Mwaura.   The going was however tough for defending champions Muthaiga.