Handicap 17 golfer Gathuri Wanjau over the weekend managed to find a winning formula, to claim the overall title during the third leg of the 2019 KCB Road to Karen Masters series. Wanjau has never won any major event at Thika Sports Club. And he only needed seven pars and one birdie to complete an impressive score of 41 points though after beating men winner Moses Mburu on countback. Also playing off handicap 17, Mburu also carded 41 points in a round that included nine pars with one birdie but with two scratches. Finishing second on 38 points in the event which attracted a field of 260 players was Colonel Joseph Muracia, while Ann Kariuki on 37 points emerged the best lady. She won by two points from Winnie Mugo. In the guest category, Irene Kimeu of Railway posted 39 points to win by one point from John Githunguri. The staff prize went to Martin Kiambi with 39 points, followed in second place by Allan Kirui, a member of Nyanza Golf Club. The nines went to S.P Gachanja and Munge Karoki on 21 points each. Speaking during the prize giving ceremony, KCB Bank head of Transactional Banking Sam Nyaoke said the bank was proud to have been involved in golf sponsorship. He urged Thika golfers to participate in the remaining two legs at Nakuru and Royal Nairobi Golf clubs. “For us golf is an avenue of networking with our current and potential customers. We are keen to continue offering you the best banking experience across the region," said Nyaoke. Six amateurs qualified for the KCB Karen Masters Pro-Am in June. They are Gathuri Wanjau, Moses Mburu, Ann Kariuki, staff winner Martin Kiambi, guest winner Irene Kimeu and junior golfer Simon Ngugi who was given a wildcard. Currently playing off handicap six, Ngugi had carded 37 points. At Karen Country Club, the Laibons (Lenana School) versus Old Cambrians (Nairobi School) Charity Golf Derby attracted a record 189 players. The field included 90 guests while the two rivals provided 99 players. As expected, the Laibons some of them being members of the hosting club made full advantage of the home course to emerge victorious with 692 points against the Old Cambrians 656 points, from the best 20 players from each school who made the cut. The best Laibon was Lappset Director General Sylvester Kasuku with 37 points after beating Patrick Kariuki on countback. The best Old Cambrian was Kiragu Kimani on 36 points. He beat former football and rugby star Joe Masiga on countback. Besides the two main competing schools (Lenana and Nairobi School), this year the event featured a number of other schools alumni. They included St Marys team of Njee Muturi, John Munge, Ian Kabiru and Ngotho who won the Boys Alumni Shield on 134 points whilst Alliance Girls Team of Lucy Kisia, Lucy Maina, Nellius Kariuki and Rachel Koigi took the Girls Alumni Shield on 136 points. Former Vet Lab captain Paresh Jai, a Laibon, took the Best Senior Golfer title on 33 points. The tournament raised over Sh1 million for the construction of a swimming pool at Lenana School swimming pool and supporting needy students.   Muthaiga’s Greg Snow was on his own with 143.