Former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero was on Tuesday released on a cash bail of Sh8 million after four nights in police custody over the Sh68 million corruption case. Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji says the inquiry relates to allegations that the Nairobi City County made an illegal payment of that amount to the law firm of Wachira Mburu, Mwangi & Company Advocates. In the ruling on Tuesday, Dr Kidero and eight others were granted release on Sh8 million cash bail or Sh20 million bond each. Four other accused persons were released on Sh4 million cash bail or Sh10 million bond each by Anti-Corruption Court Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti. Mr Ogoti ordered Dr Kidero and his co-accused to deposit their passports in court and notify the director of immigration before travelling. They were also instructed not to interfere with witnesses in the case. THE SUSPECTS Detectives from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) arrested Dr Kidero on April 26 and took him to Integrity Centre for interrogation. The suspects in the case include Nyakach MP Joshua Aduma Owuor, who was the acting director legal affairs at the defunct city council; George Wainaina Njogu, former chief of staff during Dr Kidero’s administration; former Nairobi mayor John Ndirangu Kariuki; and former councillor Paul Mutunga Mutungi. Also implicated are Mr Manasseh Karanja, a former acting director of internal audit at the county; Ms Philomena Kavinya Nzuki, a principal accountant; Mr Ng'ang'a Mungai; Ms Charity Muringo Ndiritu; Mr Peterson Njiru; Mr Ekaya Alumasi; Mr James Mbugua; Ms Elizabeth Wanjiru Nderitu; and Ms Alice Njeri Mundia, all accountants. Others are Ms Hannah Muthoni Kariuki, who allegedly received Sh11 million, Mr John Ngari Wainaina and a company identified as The Cups Limited. The accused were charged separately on Monday with varied corruption related offenses and remanded at Kilimani Police Station ahead of the ruling on their bond application. 'MALICE' Dr Kidero later accused the EACC of "prosecuting him in the court of public opinion". He claimed on Saturday that his frequent arrests were malicious and said the "cheap public relations stances will not deliver in the war against corruption". The former governor further said the offences were committed three years before he started working at City Hall.   Arrest comes as EACC probes irregular payment of Sh68 million to a law firm.