At least 10 people have been arrested in connection with the murder four days ago of Amina Bakari who was a Nyumba Kumi Official and also a Kenya Red Cross Society volunteer in Mbwajumwali Village in Lamu East. Ms Bakari, 30, was hacked and killed by unknown assailants as she closed her shop on Monday at around 11pm. She was known for her astuteness and selflessness in the provision of peer education and training, especially for youth affected by drugs. PEACE AMBASSADOR Her love for peace also made her to be appointed as the Kenya Red Cross Society peace ambassador in the village which is known for being notorious in drug peddling. The village has also been witnessing frequent attacks and killings orchestrated by youth armed with machetes and other crude weapons, which has been attributed to uncontrolled use of drugs by local youth. Speaking to the Nation on Thursday, Lamu County Commissioner Joseph Kanyiri said the suspects were arrested in various parts of Mbwajumwali village in an ongoing operation by police targeting those involved in the killings. DRUGS Mr Kanyiri said some of the suspects were even found in possession of drugs. He said police are interrogating them before they are arraigned. The county security boss said more suspects are yet to be arrested in connection with the murder of Ms Bakari whom he eulogised as a peace loving citizen. He appealed to members of the public to cooperate with police and help identify more suspects so that they face the law. “The matter is under intensive investigation. Police have also launched a massive operation [to look] for those involved in the killing. Several suspects have already been arrested and are in police custody. They are being interrogated by our officers. We expect more arrests in the course of the day. MORE SUSPECTS We appeal to members of the public to cooperate with us by giving information that will help us nab more suspect. The suspects will be presented to court immediately after police conclude interrogations,” said Mr Kanyiri. He warned residents across Lamu County against carrying weapons especially machetes and knives in public saying it is illegal and that police had been directed to arrest those found with them and charged them. “I have observed that many young people here love to walk around with pangas and knives for no reason. We can’t allow that and that means if we find you we will have you arrested and charged. People should adhere to the existing ban on crude weapons in public places,” said Mr Kanyiri. He also warned locals against taking the law into their own hands. POLICE POST Meanwhile, residents of Mbwajumwali have urged the national government to establish a police post within their village in order to bring down cases of insecurity caused by machete-wielding gangs. Mrs Fatma Yusuf said youth have become notorious and attack one another using pangas and knives which she says can be stopped if a police station is set up in the area. “Our youth here think they are in their own world where they can rule them-selves the way they want. The nearest police post is in Tchundwa. It is better that another police post is established here in Mbwajumwali so that those who are fond of taking the law in their hands can face the wrath of the law,” said Mrs Yusuf. Mr Abdalla Omar called on the police to mount a house-to-house search within Mbwajumwali in order to ensure all those involved in Ms Bakari’s murder are arrested.   Woman attacked with a panga as she closes her shop in Mbwajumwali village.