Anglican Church Archbishop Jackson ole Sapit wants the government to intensify the fight against corruption, saying, all culprits should be punished and forced to pay back the loot. In his Easter Sunday message at the All Saints Cathedral in Nairobi, he said the church is deeply concerned about the mega-corruption cases reported by the media and the Auditor-General’s report, touching on both the county and national governments. He asked all agencies charged with fighting graft to carry out their responsibility with diligence, promptness and impartiality. “The Auditor-General’s report has documented massive misuse of public resources, with minimal reports on prosecution of the culprits. CORRUPTION “We further demand that corruption cases be expedited and those found culpable to be brought to book,” the top cleric said, adding that the vice has adversely affected Kenyans through deterioration of public services and quality of life. In an earlier statement, the archbishop regretted that the church was not blameless and called on its leadership to hold itself accountable for actions that promote corruption. READ: Jubilee leaders trade barbs on graft war The archbishop said the church was pondering banning fundraisers in its sanctuaries. “As much as harambees have played an important role in the development of society, the Anglican Church of Kenya is evaluating holding of fundraisers in its sanctuaries by the politicians and the people we normally term as guests of honour,” he said. INTEGRITY Christians who hold fundraisers, he said, should be guided by the biblical principle of integrity and humility, adding that the values of integrity and hard work have been eroded over the years in churches and in the public and private sectors, thanks to “unbridled greed”. The cleric also waded into the issue of homosexuality, saying, although such people are welcomed in church, the institution will not change its principles to accommodate the group in leadership or ordained as church ministers as has happened in some Western countries. READ: MPs demand wealth probe on DP Ruto Meanwhile, Wiper Democratic Movement-Kenya leader Kalonzo Musyoka has asked the church to help Kenyans fight rampant corruption. Flanked by nine MPs, Mr Musyoka said the clergy should interrogate the sources of funds that leaders bring to church as contributions. He queried the practice where leaders bring ‘corruptly-acquired’ funds to churches as the clerics remain silent. “When the church is compromised, where does the country go?” he posed. DEMONSTRATION Mr Musyoka made the remarks at the African Inland Church, Kasina, in Mlolongo where he led the MPs and ward reps in celebrating the official launch service. The function was led by the Presiding Bishop of AIC Kenya Dr Silas Yego. MPs present were Mr Patrick Makau (Mavoko), Mr Daniel Maanzo (Makueni), Mr Joshua Mwalyo (Masinga), Mr Joshua Kimilu (Kaiti), Mr Thaddeus Nzambia (Kilome), Mr Mwalika Mboni (Kitui Rural), Mr Joshua Kutuny (Cherangany), Mr Julius Mawathe (MP-elect, Embakasi South) and former Machakos gubernatorial candidate Wavinya Ndeti. Former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth also attended the event. READ: Uhuru, Ruto allies clash again over graft Mr Musyoka urged the relevant government agencies not to relent in their fight against corruption, cautioning that “if the systems fail, then wananchi will have a right to peaceful demonstration. Wananchi are waiting for government agencies to take action against corruption… Justice delayed is justice denied.” CONSTITUTION He said Chapter Six of the Constitution should be strictly applied to ensure that corrupt leaders are brought to book. Mr Musyoka urged Kenyans to prepare for a referendum slated for early next year, saying, it is aimed at improving devolution and reducing corruption in devolved units. The MPs trained their guns on Team Tanga Tanga led by Deputy President William Ruto, accusing it of abetting graft as it campaigns for the DP’s 2022 presidential bid. The chorus against corruption was started by Mr Kimilu, who asked those who had stolen public funds to return the loot “as God is angry with them.” Mr Mule lamented that Kenya was being looted “morning, afternoon and evening”, and urged the church not to shy away from telling their people the truth about what is happening in Kenya. EXPOSE LIARS He criticised those going around the country bragging about 2022 and who appear to entertain graft. In a thinly veiled attack on Mr Ruto, Mr Kutuny sarcastically remarked that God will always expose liars by causing them to make confusing statements and hence expose themselves to public ridicule. The DP recently linked a non-existent verse to the Bible, exposing him to social media ridicule. The leaders also said they fully support the ‘handshake’, which they described as a blessing for the country. They also vouched for Mr Musyoka as the best presidential candidate in 2022. PEACE Mr Kenneth said he is happy that President Kenyatta, ODM leader Raila Odinga and Mr Musyoka “are now talking peace, so that we can build a prosperous Kenya.” He rooted for an Eastern and Central political bloc comprising Gema communities and the Kamba. Mr Makau described Mr Musyoka as a humble and God-fearing leader, who would make a good President for Kenya. “When you see Hon Kalonzo here, you have seen President Uhuru Kenyatta… This is not Tanga Tanga,” he said. Mr Mawathe added: “The one who will be the fifth President of Kenya is with us here (referring to Kalonzo.)   Sapit proposes the building of water pans and boreholes which take little time to complete.