World Boxing Council (WBC) world super bantamweight champion Fatuma “Ïron Fist” Zarika is set to defend her title for the fourth consecutive time in December this year. Zarika, who is fully back in training after beating Zambia’s Catherine Phiri to retain her title last month in Nairobi, disclosed that she will warm up for her title defence with a non-title featherweight bout in July. However, Zarika explained that she will consult with her manager, former WBC cruiserweight champion Tony Bellew of Britain on the exact dates for the warm up bout and the title defence. “I could fight the none-title bout either in England or United States of America before my title defence in Nairobi once again, said Zarika, who is training at Vision Plaza, Nairobi. “It’s usually good to scale the weight up while preparing for a title in one’s specific weight category.” WBC international super bantamweight champion, Mexican Yamileth "Yeimi" Mercado, who Zarika beat last year in her second title defence, is among top rankled boxers in the weight to challenge Zarika. In fact, Mercado, who Zarika beat in a split-point decision on September 8 last year, did not hide her intentions after Zarika disposed of Phiri in unanimous points on March 23 this year to keep her belt. Mercado said on her Facebook page: “Rematch!!! Please. Mercado had beaten Alys Sanchez from Venezuela in unanimous point decision to claim the WBC International super bantamweight belt on February 16, this year. Mercado is placed third in the rankings and a possible challenger but it’s the WBC Diamond super bantamweight champion, American Amanda “The Real Deal Serrano, who is ranked first and hot favourite to meet Zarika, 34.Experienced 30-year-old Serrano, who had 36 wins, one draw and one defeat (36-1-1), which came in 2012 when she lost to Frida Wallberg of Sweden for the WBC world super featherweight title. Serrano met Zarika twice in 2015, winning all the non-title bouts in a unanimous decision. “I am ready for any opponent either in the country or elsewhere,” said Zarika, who boasts of 32-12-1 record. Zarika made history when she beat Jamaican Alicia Ashley in the USA win the title becoming the first Kenyan to hold a WBC world belt. She staged a successful first defence, beating Phiri on December 2, 2017, before and then Phiri again. The other possible challengers are WBC Silver super bantamweight champion Tatyana “Black Panther” Zrazhevskayan (8-0-0) from Russia, who is ranked second, World Boxing Association (WBA) world super bantamweight champion Yazmin “La Rusita”Rivas (39-10-1)of Mexico and International Boxing Federation (IBF) world super bantamweight champion Mercela “La Tigresa” Acuna (49-7-1) from Argentina.  