The Goan Gymkhana grounds on Sunday exploded into cheers and celebrations after South B United won the Nairobi Region finals of the ongoing Chapa Dimba Na Safaricom tournament. The Langata-based team beat Jericho Allstars 2-1 in an exciting and adrenaline filled men’s final that was played under cool weather conditions and which was watched by a capacity crowd. Fabio Otieno put Jericho All Stars ahead in the 27th minute, but the eventual winners fought back with goals from Alvin Kuka and Meshach Omondi in the 33rd and 74th minutes of the game. Enock Wanyama, the young, talented midfielder with the pace of a Leopard and the physique of a deer, was named Most Valuable Player in the region following his impeccable exploits for South B United in the course of the tournament. For their win, South B United pocketed the Sh200,000 cash prize and will now represent Nairobi in the national finals of the Chapa Dimba Na Safaricom tournament scheduled for June this year in Meru. “We thank God we won, and we did it through hard work. We are targeting the nationals now because we want to develop our talents to the best we can. I thank the organisers for making this even possible because it has given us a chance to exercise our talent,” said South B All Stars midfielder George William Ogola. “I am happy to have helped my team get to the finals, but it wasn’t God’s plan that we win. It just wasn’t our day. But the coach has told us to maintain discipline and to keep our heads up despite this defeat,” said Jericho All Stars captain Bramwel Kavaya, who also won the Golden Boot with his two goals in the two-day competition. To get to Sunday’s finals, South B United had beaten Uweza FC 2-0 in the first semi-final played on Saturday, while Jericho All Stars had overcame Kasarani’s Bright Star Academy via a 2-1 score line in the other semifinal. The ladies finals was won by Acakoro Ladies, who beat Carolina For Kibera 5-4 in post-match penalties after that match ended 1-1 in normal time. Catherine Awuor and Pauline Nyanduko had scored a goal each for Acakoro and Carolina respectively, and Acakoro’s Sylvia Makhungu failed to convert a 63rd minute penalty thereby forcing the match to stretch onto the penalty shootout. The Chapa Dimba Na Safaricom tournament aims at scouting for youth talent, developing grassroots football, and ultimately propelling gifted players to the national team. At its conclusion, an all-star team will be selected to attend a training camp in Spain where they will also play against other youth sides.Boys: South B United 2-1 Jericho AllStars Girls: Acakoro Ladies 5-4 Carolina For Kibera  