I watched a livid Ambrose Rachier promising to call down fire and brimstone upon the heads of saboteurs he claimed were behind the current mess our beloved Gor Mahia finds itself in. Just as it should be. However, I want to ask the chairman to go beyond the tough talk and actually take action against the miscreants. Few days before this, the chairman made the sensational claim that a section of his own management was hell-bent on decapitating the head of the club. I believe the high noon for these fifth columnists is finally here. I would kindly ask Rachier to look for a tall stool, go to the agora and announce to the four winds of the earth the name of these people cutting off the hand that feeds them. I have read with a knowing grin when I see people frothing at the mouth saying how offering oneself for election as a Gor Mahia official is a labour of love. Only a few days after clinching the seat we hear of people printing fake tickets, scouts having the backing of some officials unashamedly running a human trafficking ring at the gates at club games, having their cronies into the stadium after greasing palms. It is for this reason that I am usually never keen on Johnny-come-latelies who spring up around election time with powerful PowerPoint and PDF presentations promising heaven on earth to the club supporters. In the three decades that I have hang around Gor Mahia I have seen a thousand and one of these smooth snake oil salesmen who promise to take the club to Canaan only to turn into crocodiles that the club patron Raila Odinga talked about at the last general elections. While cracking the whip, Rachier must also look inward and deal with those who were in charge of logistics and who made extra shoddy travel arrangements when the boys went to Morocco on the last outing. I am not buying any of the lame excuses bandied about by the bungling club officials. The simple story is that they failed in a simple duty of planning the travel. Problem with Gor Mahia is that we have more than our fair share of not so intelligent officials, men and women who can see through a key hole with both eyes open. One of my editors, the late Amboka Andere once told me that whenever you are writing a story, just remember that there is a reader out there who knows the subject more than you. Same advice I would want to give the Gor officials — before you go to social media with nonsensical explanations on travel arrangements just know that there are some of your supporters who have travelled half the globe only that they do not post pictures on Facebook and Twitter. Lastly, having seen our performance in the Premier League, I am convinced that we are going to play continental matches in 2020. What we need now is proper planning. Knowing the pedestrian way our club is run, this might appear like rocket science to many of those in charge. What a shame!  