A teachers’ union official has been arrested in Kakamega County for leading his colleagues in disrupting the launch of the competency-based curriculum training for teachers in the region. Confusion marked the launch of the training after union leaders stormed venues disrupting the exercise in several centres. Mr Tom Ingolo, who is the Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) branch secretary for Kakamega Central, was arrested on Tuesday at Shikoti Primary School. "The police have arrested me…and want to take me to cells in Kakamega but teachers are protesting, demanding to be told why I'm being arrested," Mr Ingolo told the Nation. Earlier, taking the lead from his branch chairman Patrick Chungani, he disrupted training of teachers at the Kakamega Primary School claiming that the meetings were poorly planned. "We have asked the teachers to leave since the government is ill-prepared to roll-out the training programme. We asked them to boycott the training since there are no proper training and learning resources in place," said Mr Ingolo. His branch chairman had also claimed that the training is a waste of time. POLICE PROTECTION But the Teachers Service Commission county director John Nzioka asked teachers to report to the police if they are threatened. "The training is an important exercise and must go on as planned. We will not allow anyone to disrupt the exercise," said Mr Nzioka. Mr Nzioka said security officers will be deployed in the training centres to protect teachers. In Vihiga County, training of teachers for the competence based curriculum went on uninterrupted despite a call by Knut to boycott the sessions. About 20 zones in the county are being used as training centres with 1,698 teachers taking part. Vihiga County Director of Education Hellen Nyang'au said 110 teachers were picked from private schools and 1,588 from public primary schools. Local Knut executive secretary Maurice Chalenga said union members in the county had been advised on the position taken by their union but said officials will not disrupt the exercise. "We believe a high percentage of teachers are not going to attend. It is tricky and we may not go disrupting it if our members choose to attend," Mr Chalenga said.  