Hosts Royal Nairobi’s Junior A team set the pace for their senior team by beating Sigona by two shots, to claim the Tannahill Shield Junior title at the par 72 Royal Nairobi Golf Club course on Wednesday. A fine round of six over par 78 by Korby Gatiramu and Njogu Kungu in addition to a 95 by the pair of Ikinu Wambugu and Shonay Shah gave the team a total of 343 gross, to keep the shield at home for the first time. Since the Junior category was introduced in the Tannahill Shield two years ago, Muthaiga has been clinching the title. “We are very delighted winning the shield despite the tough competition. This win is a good start for Royal Nairobi Nairobi Golf Club for the weekend’s main tournament," said Gatiramu, who was the captain of the junior team. The Sigona team, which had tied for second place with Muthaiga during Tuesday’s first round, carded 171 gross in the final round for a total of 345. It was a great outing for debutantes Western under coach Shem Orwenyo, a Junior Golf Foundation (JGF) trustee, who put up a great performance in the second round, posting 165 gross for a total of 349 to finish in third place overall. The going was however tough for defending champions Muthaiga whose team of Daniel Kiragu and Junaid Manji, Njoroge Kibugu and Emmanuel Njugu managed a score of 177 for a tournament total of 351 to finish fourth. Mombasa’s team of Andrew Wahome, Zayan Din, Rumil Jayasinge and Nathan Wanyama carded a total of 367 gross to wind up in fifth place ahead of Vet Lab Sports club who posted 385 gross. Royal B's David Killinkoy, Mathew Kipingor, Mathew Wachira and Richard Owino finished last with 463 gross. Speaking during the prize giving ceremony, Royal Nairobi Golf Club captain Bernard Mwaura said he would like to see all the participating clubs bring junior teams in future saying it is the only to improve the sport in the country. “I believe some of these juniors are going to turn out for their clubs or senior teams during this weekend’s 95th edition of the Tannahill Shield and this is the way to go for the game," said Mwaura. Royal’s junior golf convenor Nancy Ikinu, who is also a trustee of the JGF, said: “We would like to see more juniors in next year’s event. I am particularly excited to see Western participating in the event bearing in mind that Western draws its players from various clubs in the Western region." A big number of the juniors will also appear for their senior teams during the main event which gets underway with the first round on Friday.  