The annual Tannahill Shield, Kenya’s biggest and most prestigious team tournament whose 2019 edition is scheduled for this weekend, on Friday received a shot in the arm from Betway Group. Betway, one of the leading gaming firms, presented a cheque of Sh1 million to Royal Nairobi Golf Club, as part of the sponsorship for this year’s Tannahill Shield which marks its 95th anniversary. Speaking at Royal Nairobi Golf Club, Betway Kenya Country Manager Leon Kiptum said they are on supporting sporting talent saying the Tannahill golf tournament offers a great to support young talent. “We take pride in supporting these great players who we believe will go on to play in other major tournaments around the world," said Kiptum. He said golf unlike other sports, has not received much attention because of the impression that the sport was for the elite. “We have been impressed by the fact that Tannahill tournament has embraced the idea of introducing the aspect of junior players not only in the main teams but also introduced a junior event to be played before the main competition which we believe it will help nurture talent and also encourage the rest of Kenyans to play the game." At the same time, Kiptum said the tournament offers an opportunity for Betway to showcase its products. “We would like to extend our commitment to different sporting communities including football, rugby, volleyball and now golf which is our second event to sponsor." Launched in 2006, the company - which operates across a number of countries in the world - is also the official principal sponsor of English Premier League football club West Ham United. Speaking before receiving the cheque, Royal Nairobi Golf Club captain Bernard Mwaura said besides the nine teams which had already confirmed participation, there will be over seven junior teams which will battle it out for the Tannahill Shield Junior title. “So far, Muthaiga and Royal Nairobi have listed three and two junior teams while two others are expected from elsewhere. This is more than what we had last year, an indication that the junior interest is also growing in the Tannahill Shield," said Mwaura. The Junior event will take place on April 16 and 17, followed by the main event from April 19 to 21. He thanked the event’s other sponsor Jamii Telecommunications Limited. The nine teams in the main event will be Royal, Muthaiga, Vet Lab, Sigona, Limuru, Railway, Windsor, Mombasa, and Western which usually draws its players from most of the clubs in Western Kenya. This is the first time that Windsor and Railway will be meeting in the Tannahill Shield tournament. Over the years, the two have been exchanging position in the event where when one team is relegated, the other one comes in. However, during the 2018 tournament, Karen Country Club finished last and was relegated for this year’s tournament. Any of the teams can be relegated if it finishes last save for Mombasa who are the traditional guests of the hosting club.  