Following the appointment of former Kibera Black Stars coach Godfrey Oduor as Nzoia Sugar head coach, the club is exuding confidence that the youthful trainer can take the team to greater heights. Chairman Yappets Mokua revealed the 40-year-old Oduor - who penned a three-year deal with the Bungoma-based outfit - was their best pick among many applicants because of his readiness to learn and work within the club’s means. The Kenya Under-17 assistant coach Oduor, fondly known as Solo, replaces interim manager Vincent Sifuma who took over following Nicholas Muyoti’s departure to Kakamega Homeboyz in February. “He has a good understanding of the game, he is very young and innovative, furthermore, he is capable of handling young players with his national U-17 team experience,” Mokua said. “If you look at our squad, the average age is about 21 years hence we needed someone who can work with this crop of promising players.” “Nzoia is known for exposing young coaches from the likes of Mwalala (Bernard) and recently Muyoti (Nicholas), given a chance, Oduor can stem up the heights as well,” addded Mokua. Oduor, holder of the Confederation of African Football (Caf) license “C”, can’t wait to make his bow in the SportPesa Premier League (SPL) after years in the lower tier. “This is another platform that will definitely come with its own challenges but I am hopeful that God’s guidance will aid me,” offered Oduor, while outlining his immediate plans with just 11 games to the end of the season. He watched from the stands as his team lost 3-2 to Mathare United at Kasarani on Wednesday. “It’s a good side with young players who can register positive results if given a chance, proper training and team work instilled in them,” said Oduor, who ditched Kibera Black Stars in February after guiding them to three consecutive promotions from the lower divisions to their current National Super League (NSL) status. In his heydays, Oduor played for Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB), Tusker and Agrochemicals before hanging boots to take up coaching.  