The strong eastern winds blowing from the Caribbean Sea thwarted my jogging efforts. I kept going; the scenery was idyllic. It was 6:45 am and I was in Belize City. The city was asleep. The sun had already been up for more than an hour. Suddenly, I noticed that not everyone was asleep. Dean Barrow was also jogging, perhaps walking fast, at a comfortable pace on the other side of the street. Mr Barrow is no small man. He is Belize’s Prime Minister. He had no bodyguards, no retinue; he was alone. I had met Barrow at his office the day before, during a courtesy call by the Referendum Observer Group from the Commonwealth. Our conversation focused on the current injunction against the referendum requested by the opposition and surprisingly upheld by the Chief Justice. Belize City is a small and beautiful city in the Caribbean coast of Belize. As soon as my plane touched down, my driver told me that there was a hearing at the Supreme Court at 2:00 pm. The Chief Justice was about to rule on an injunction against the referendum. I did not know that what I had come to observe, might never take place. UPHELD INJUNCTION We had just enough time to drop our bags at the hotel and rushed out to the Supreme Court building. Shock horror! No one expected it! Chief Justice Kenneth Benjamin upheld an injunction against the referendum. It was less than a week to the referendum date. The government, together with everyone else, was thrown into total confusion. Will there be a referendum? Everyone asked. Nobody, not even the Prime Minister knew. When we discussed the matter, Mr Hubert Ingraham, a prestigious former Prime Minister of the Bahamas, in his political wisdom suggested that we should continue our work until Monday, when the substance of the case might be decided. Our schedule was packed and there was no time to waste. Referendum or no referendum we rolled up our sleeves. Martin, Tres-Ann, Elizabeth and Andy, an amazingly able team from the Commonwealth Secretariat, had put together a ve});
} The strong eastern winds blowing from the Caribbean Sea thwarted my jogging efforts. I kept going; the scenery was idyllic. It was 6:45 am and I was in Belize City. The city was asleep. The sun had already been up for more than an hour. Suddenly, I noticed that not everyone was asleep. Dean Barrow was also jogging, perhaps walking fast, at a comfortable pace on the other side of the street. Mr Barrow is no small man. He is Belize’s Prime Minister. He had no bodyguards, no retinue; he was alone. I had met Barrow at his office the day before, during a courtesy call by the Referendum Observer Group from the Commonwealth. Our conversation focused on the current injunction against the referendum requested by the opposition and surprisingly upheld by the Chief Justice. Belize City is a small and beautiful city in the Caribbean coast of Belize. As soon as my plane touched down, my driver told me that there was a hearing at the Supreme Court at 2:00 pm. The Chief Justice was about to rule on an injunction against the referendum. I did not know that what I had come to observe, might never take place. UPHELD INJUNCTION We had just enough time to drop our bags at the hotel and rushed out to the Supreme Court building. Shock horror! No one expected it! Chief Justice Kenneth Benjamin upheld an injunction against the referendum. It was less than a week to the referendum date. The government, together with everyone else, was thrown into total confusion. Will there be a referendum? Everyone asked. Nobody, not even the Prime Minister knew. When we discussed the matter, Mr Hubert Ingraham, a prestigious former Prime Minister of the Bahamas, in his political wisdom suggested that we should continue our work until Monday, when the substance of the case might be decided. Our schedule was packed and there was no time to waste. Referendum or no referendum we rolled up our sleeves. Martin, Tres-Ann, Elizabeth and Andy, an amazingly able team from the Commonwealth Secretariat, had put together a ve});
} The strong eastern winds blowing from the Caribbean Sea thwarted my jogging efforts. I kept going; the scenery was idyllic. It was 6:45 am and I was in Belize City. The city was asleep. The sun had already been up for more than an hour. Suddenly, I noticed that not everyone was asleep. Dean Barrow was also jogging, perhaps walking fast, at a comfortable pace on the other side of the street. Mr Barrow is no small man. He is Belize’s Prime Minister. He had no bodyguards, no retinue; he was alone. I had met Barrow at his office the day before, during a courtesy call by the Referendum Observer Group from the Commonwealth. Our conversation focused on the current injunction against the referendum requested by the opposition and surprisingly upheld by the Chief Justice. Belize City is a small and beautiful city in the Caribbean coast of Belize. As soon as my plane touched down, my driver told me that there was a hearing at the Supreme Court at 2:00 pm. The Chief Justice was about to rule on an injunction against the referendum. I did not know that what I had come to observe, might never take place. UPHELD INJUNCTION We had just enough time to drop our bags at the hotel and rushed out to the Supreme Court building. Shock horror! No one expected it! Chief Justice Kenneth Benjamin upheld an injunction against the referendum. It was less than a week to the referendum date. The government, together with everyone else, was thrown into total confusion. Will there be a referendum? Everyone asked. Nobody, not even the Prime Minister knew. When we discussed the matter, Mr Hubert Ingraham, a prestigious former Prime Minister of the Bahamas, in his political wisdom suggested that we should continue our work until Monday, when the substance of the case might be decided. Our schedule was packed and there was no time to waste. Referendum or no referendum we rolled up our sleeves. Martin, Tres-Ann, Elizabeth and Andy, an amazingly able team from the Commonwealth Secretariat, had put together a ve