Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has asked members of parliament and county assembly not to pass this year’s budgets until all government officials undergo a lifestyle audit. This is the only way to fight the rampant corruption that has adversely affected Kenyans, Governor Mutua said in Mombasa on Thursday. “Every Kenyan is aware of the damage caused by runaway corruption. We cannot be passing and approving budgets that will only fatten the wallets of government officials," he told reporters at Voyager Beach Hotel. "That is why this is my call to the National Assembly and county assemblies - do not pass this year’s budget until a proper lifestyle audit on all employees, both in the county and the national governments, is done." PROSECUTION Dr Mutua cited scandals including Chickengate, saying the accused in London were charged and punished, yet this has not been the case in Kenya. “People were arrested in England over issues in Kenya. They were prosecuted and they served their three years in prison. They got out of jail and yet the same case is still being handled by lower courts in Kenya,” he said. The governor said if nothing happens by May, there will be no need for budgets to be approved. “Until Kenyans know the kind of governors, President, Deputy President and government officials they have, there will be no need to pass a budget that will only benefit few individuals,” he said. HOUSING LEVY Dr Mutua also talked about the 1.5 per cent housing levy, which was to take effect in April but which the Labour court suspended on Wednesday. He advised the government to slow down because many Kenyans are yet to understand how they will benefit. “This might be a good and noble idea but I am telling President Kenyatta this is not the right time to do it. Kenyans are currently going through many problems. Subjecting them to more taxation will only worsen their situations,” he said. The county chief added that the programme should be suspended until the public is sufficiently educated. “I urge the government to push this matter to next year because Kenyans are yet to get a grasp of this tax. It might be a bright idea but then why the speedy implementation. We need to sensitize the public on the importance of this matter,” he said.   Cotu argues the tax is unconstitutional and against Employment Act, 2007.