There is disquiet in the police service after officers shortlisted for interviews for a traffic management course were asked to apply afresh directly to the deputy inspector general. A circular dated April 16, and penned by J.K. Kieng, directed all officers interested in the course to apply before Friday. It is not clear what prompted the changes that have left those shortlisted unhappy. COLLECT BRIBES A senior officer told the Nation that questions had been raised on the criteria used to shortlist applicants. On Tuesday, the Nation contacted Traffic Department Commandant Samuel Kimaru who directed us to police spokesperson Charles Owino. Mr Owino did not respond to our calls and text messages. However, a senior officer said the initial selection was “marred by corruption, with some officers forwarding names of the 'highest bidders' and their close allies.” Working in the traffic department is considered lucrative, especially because rogue officers can collect bribes from motorists and matatu operators. “You are directed to inform the candidates who had been shortlisted that the interviews, which were scheduled to take place between April 23 and May 3, have been cancelled,” read the circular seen by the Nation. On the other hand, officers undergoing a similar course at the National Police College, Kiganjo, have complained of being asked to pay for an examination fee that they knew little about. THREATENED In Kiganjo, an officer who confided in the Nation and cannot be named because of the sensitive nature of the issue said that problems began when they were asked to pay an examination fee they knew nothing about. “We are having problems. The morale here is at an all-time low. We have been asked to pay Sh200 for every exam we sit. That is Sh3,000 for the 15 exams. “That is an exorbitant amount that should have been communicated earlier. To make matters worse, anyone who is not in a position to pay is being threatened with sacking. Is this just?” the officer lamented. “If they are genuine, why can’t they receipt these transactions?” asked the officer. But Mr King’ori Mwangi, the Kiganjo training school head, said the trainees should be conversant with instructions. “Ask those who are complaining to share their joining instructions with you. These things have been in existence since 1948,” he said.   A driver informed me that that was a way of asking for a bribe.