Mwamba, Nakuru, Impala Saracens and Kenya Harlequin have made changes to their sides ahead of their Kenya Cup semi-final play-offs Saturday afternoon in Nairobi and Nakuru respectively. Mwamba will be without injured backs Billy Odhiambo and Horace Owiti as they take on Nakuru at the Nakuru Athletics Club. Impala Saracens have effected one change in the squad, replacing Edwin Gatungo with Eric K’Opondo at second-row ahead of the team’s clash with Kenya Harlequin at the RFUEA grounds in Nairobi. The winner of the match between Mwamba and Nakuru will face Kabras Sugar in the semi-final, while defending champions Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) await the winner between Quins and Impala in the other last four encounter. Odhiambo and Owiti’s injuries have since seen Kenya Sevens speedier Collins Injera, who featured at back-row for the better part of the season, move to the mid-field where he will partner with Joe Inzuga. Nakuru, who downed Mwamba 36-19 in Nakuru during the regular season, have effected two changes. Head coach Mitch Ocholla has replaced injured fly-half Duncan Abuyaka and centre Tyson Asiago with Geoffrey Ominde and Kelvin Omiyo respectively as his Wanyore side that is skippered by Edwin Makori hopes for another victory against touring Kulabu. Ocholla said that playing at home will be of great advantage to his charges. “Our fans have been the loudest and players love playing in such atmosphere at Nakuru Athletics Club,” said Ocholla. Ocholla said that Mwamba, who are on a revenge mission, will bring out their good brand of rugby especially coming off the embarrassing 71-19 loss to Impala Saracens in Enterprise Cup quarterfinals. “We intend to dominate in the set-pieces and also make sure we manage our game well with outmost precision," added Ocholla. Mwamba coach Tito Oduk has also moved Louis Kisia to the lock to partner with Chris Asira. In the back row, Tony Owuor moves from the base of the scrum to blindside flanker with George Omolla going at lock. STRONG BENCH In the backs, Martin Oyugi will partner with Tony Omondi, who has had a storming debut season at Kulabu. Injera moves from the back row and will pair up with Inzuga in the midfield as Alex Aturo, Michael Agevi and Elvis Namusasi complete the back line. The likes of Stephen Sikuta and Edwin Machanje form Mwamba’s strong bench. Scrum-half Samson Onsomu will lead Impala Saracens assault against Quins who beat the Sarries 37-24 during the regular season. Impala head coach Frank Ndong’ said that Quins will bring out their aggressive nature similar to when they won 37-24 during the regular season. “We expect similar fashion but we shall bego all out as well,” said Ndong’. Quins head coach Charles Cardovillis has brought back Eden Agero, who was with Kenya Sevens at Hong Kong and Singapore legs of the World Rugby Sevens Series at fly-half, moving Lyle Asiligwa to fullback. Quins have made three changes with Brian Obwaya and Edward Oseko returning to replace Frank Khalwale and Melvin Thairu while Tony Mutai will partner with Mike Onsando at lock. “We are focused on reaching the semi-finals and I am confident the boys will do the job," said Cardovillis.  