Different universities shone bright at Kenyatta University grounds where play-offs of the Kenya University Sports Association (Kusa) national ball games came to a close on Sunday. Football drew the most interest, and it was Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology who carried the day after beating Kenyatta University 4-2 on post-match penalties at the university grounds. Kabarak took third place after beating Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology a 1-0 at the same venue. Strathmore carried home the men’s basketball title, while Kenyatta University lifted the women’s trophy. Strathmore beat JKUAT 59-53 in the men’s final, while Kenyatta University narrowly edged Strathmore by a 37-36 score to go home with the women’s gong. Kenyatta University and University of Nairobi won the third place play-offs in the men and women’s competitions to finish third in basketball. Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology went home with the women’s handball title after beating Mount Kenya University 19-13, while Strathmore beat Kenyatta University 17-15 to win in the men’s category. In volleyball, Strathmore University beat UoN 3-0 to carry home the men’s title, while St Paul’s University overcame JKUAT by straight sets to finish third on the log. In women’s netball, MMUST carried the day after beating KU 32-29, and Machakos University finished third after winning the third place playoffs 32-31 against Chuka University. The men’s finals were played in a round robin format at which KU finished first followed by University of Eldoret and Chuka University in that order. Hockey women’s defending champions USIU were dethroned at the finals after losing 4-3 on post-match penalties to University of Nairobi, while KU beat Kisii University 2-1 to finish third. “I guess some you win and some you lose. Today was just not our day. We couldn’t close the game well enough and we ended up going into penalties where it is anybody’s game so we humbly accept defeat,” said USIU midfielder Phanice Ayieko. Results: Men’s Basketball Strathmore Women’s Basketball Kenyatta University Women’s Handball Masinde Muliro Men’s Handball Strathmore Men’s Volleyball Strathmore Women’s netball Masinde Muliro Men’s volleyball Kenyatta University Women’s hockey University of Nairobi 4-3 USIU Men’s Football Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology  