Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has said he will continue sacking officers who do not account for missing public funds. “Expect more sackings in the county because my administration cannot tolerate corruption, failure to perform duties or laziness. I am going to fire some more public officers and I have no apologies to make for it,” said Governor Sonko. In an interview on Citizen TV on Wednesday, the governor came out guns blazing, defending himself from accusations of having a disorganised leadership style. “If you cannot account for funds stolen during your time in office, then I will send you home. If you tolerate graft or engage in corruption, I will send you home,” said Mr Sonko. LOSING HOUSES He said home owners in the city have been losing their houses to unscrupulous officials in the rates department who collude with officers in the legal department. “(Crooked) officers in the rates department would inflate rates owed by a home owner to a level he could not pay and then take the proposal to auction the house to the legal department. The house would then be sold to a third party who would be a proxy of these officers,” the governor said. The governor said he had fired the entire rates department staff including the head, whom he accused of benefitting from such underhand deals. Mr Sonko said the resignation of former Education CEC Janet Ouko would not shake his resolve to ensure that corruption cartels are defeated. “We lost money to Kobudho Educational Centre when some people diverted money meant to pay school fees for needy students. The matter is under investigation by the DCI who have written to us asking the county for a list of bursary beneficiaries and cheque details,” he said. MARBLE ARCH HOTEL He revisited the controversy surrounding Marble Arch Hotel, saying part of it was built on public property. “Marble Arch sits on county property. Mr Mike Maina hived off part of the fire station without doing proper subdivision. I am ready to face him in court,” he said. The governor alleged that the owner had grabbed public land including a parking lot and a public toilet. “He still went ahead and grabbed public parking and a public toilet and I have repossessed the parking. He has since gone to court but I have the evidence to back my case. I do not fear him,” he said.   Ouko gives Sonko seven days to apologise over an alleged defamatory statement.