At least Sh94 million will be spent to make the 6th Annual Devolution Conference scheduled to take place in Kirinyaga in March successful. All the 47 counties have contributed the money has meant to, among other things, be used for hosting governors and their deputies as well as members of county assemblies. This money will also be used to cater for other logistics during the five-day conference which will attract more than 6,000 delegates from Kenya and other parts of the world. According to the Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru, each county government has contributed Sh2 million which has been submitted to the Council of Governors which is organising the event. VENUE The conference will take place at Kirinyaga University. Speaking at Gitwe Primary School near Kutus town Wednesday after donating shoes to the pupils, Ms Waiguru said the national government is also assisting in the preparations for the conference. "We are working in partnership with the government to improve roads which will be used by the delegates,” she said. She told Kirinyaga residents to turn out in large numbers to welcome the delegates. She said security will be beefed up at the venue of the conference and all towns to ensure all delegates are safe. Ms Waiguru observed that security is paramount and the delegates must participate in the conference without fear. MEETING "We have held meetings with security officers from the region to discuss how the delegates will be protected during the conference," she said. Ms Waiguru said President Uhuru Kenyatta, his deputy William Ruto and diplomats as well as other high ranking guests will attend the conference. The Kirinyaga governor said delegates will tour coffee, tea and rice growing areas as well as tourist attractions. They will also have a chance to explore investment opportunities. She advised traders to capitalise on the conference to make booming business. "If the traders organise themselves well they can make money through quality delivery of services," she said. Ms Waiguru played down the wrangling between her and Kirinyaga MCAs over the reduction of bursary fund allocation for wards. “There is no bad blood between me and the assembly. Only a handful MCAs are quarrelling and this is normal in politics,” Ms Waiguru said.  