Would you like to succeed Ezra Chiloba as CEO of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission? You have till the end of January to submit your application. The IEBC is looking for any willing Kenyan with qualifications including at least a degree from a recognised university; 15 years' experience in electoral management, public administration, law, or political science; and proven leadership experience. In an announcement posted on its website, the commission says that any willing takers of the CEO hot seat — whose past two holders have left acrimoniously — have until 5pm on January 31 to apply. “The commission secretary/ chief executive officer shall hold office for a term of five years but shall be eligible for reappointment for one further term of five years subject to satisfactory performance. The position has an attractive remuneration and benefits,” the post states. SACKING Mr Chiloba was fired from the commission in October 2018 while on suspension over questionable procurement deals. The sacking came a day after he failed to appear before an IEBC disciplinary committee to give his side of the story on a series of audit queries. His final days in the office were marked by ugly public exchanges with the commission’s chairman Wafula Chebukati. Mr Chiloba's predecessor James Oswago also left in a cloud of controversy following a Sh1.3 billion tender scandal. REQUIREMENTS An IEBC chief executive officer, as per the vacancy announcement, is the head of the secretariat, the accounting officer of the commission, the custodian of the commission’s records among other roles. For applicants to make it to the shortlist, the IEBC says, they must get clearance from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, the Kenya Revenue Authority, the Higher Education Loans Board, the Credit Reference Bureau, Africa and the professional bodies they belong to. Anyone who held an elective political position after 2014 is not eligible. The same goes for individuals who have been members of governing bodies of political parties, or groups affiliated to political parties, in the last five years.   The suspended CEO announced his dismissal through a tweet Friday evening.