At least 100 people have been charged in an Eldoret court with presenting fake military recruitment documents. The young men and women, who were arrested on Sunday at the military Recruits Training School, appeared before Principal Magistrate Naomi Wairimu on Tuesday. They were all charged with two counts of forgery. In the first count, they were accused of possessing a forged calling letter and secondly, for presenting the fake document at the Recruits School. BAIL They all pleaded not guilty and were released on a Sh100,000 bond and a surety of similar amount or a Sh100,000 cash bail. The case will be heard on January 25. KDF spokesperson Paul Njuguna said they had warned potential recruits to be alert to avoid being conned. "We had warned Kenyans to be on the lookout because many people out there con jobless youths whenever such opportunities arise," he said. A victim who declined to be named said her father paid a senior officer at the Lanet Barracks Sh300,000 to facilitate her recruitment. “Part of the money was paid in cash and the balance via M-Pesa and we were given the recruitment letter,” she said. Some youths are said to have sold property, including land, to raise money for letters. Col Njuguna said those arrested are being held in different police stations in Eldoret town and will be charged after investigations are completed. According to Col Njuguna, those who were arrested confessed that they paid up to Sh300,000 for appointment letters. SH2 MILLION "It is unfortunate that some people have taken advantage of very innocent Kenyans to fleece them of millions of money on grounds that they are going to employ them. This should not be happening in this age and era," explained Col Njuguna. Last year, more than 60 youths were arrested with fake appointment letters were charged. In April, police in Kilifi arrested a man suspected to have conned youth of more than Sh2 million by promising to recruit them into the KDF. He was arrested in a hotel in Malindi Town. Police said he is the ring leader of a syndicate that has been operating in Mombasa and Kilifi counties, conning unsuspecting youth looking for jobs. He had been masquerading as a Kenya Navy officer, Mtwapa OCPD Joseph Muriuki said.   They told KDF officials that they paid up to Sh300,000, for "recruitment letters”.