ODM leader Raila Odinga and National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi have differed over the controversial claims that MPs are planning to have their salaries and benefits increased at a time the country’s economy is struggling. Although Mr Muturi accused the media of misreporting on the MPs salaries, and assured the country that such a proposal would be rejected if tabled in the House, Mr Odinga told him to come clean on the matter. TAXPAYER EXPLOITED The ODM leader said legislators have often abused parliamentary sitting and mileage allowances to enhance their pay. The proceeds that MPs make from mileage, committee sittings and their appearances in the chamber are aggregated and included in their monthly salaries. Mr Odinga and Mr Muturi were speaking at the recent anti-corruption conference in Nairobi. Their comments are informed by a controversial clause proposed for inclusion in the Public Service Bill that if enacted and signed into law will see the pay of the 416 members in the National Assembly and Senate go up. “It is unconstitutional for MPs to increase their own salaries. That is a preserve of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC),” Mr Muturi said despite the High Court giving Parliament the free will to determine their own pay without the control of the SRC. “The Bill that causes this problem has no such proposal and even if it were there, it would be rejected by the House. It is a form of corruption to misreport by the media,” said the Speaker. But even as Mr Muturi accused journalists of misrepresenting the facts about the Bill, Mr Odinga told him that MPs have always exploited the taxpayer through extra pay they get at the committee sittings, mileage allowances and in the chamber. MISREPRESENTING “It is a fact that Parliament employs fewer staff compared to the Judiciary but has allocated itself more money. Where is equity?” Mr Odinga posed. In the current financial year, Parliament allocated itself Sh36 billion equitably shared between the National Assembly and Senate and about Sh14 billion to the Judiciary. The Judiciary had requested for Sh31 billion for infrastructure development across the country and the acquisition and installation of technology and hiring of staff. Chief Justice David Maraga warned Kenyans that they should not expect faster conclusion of cases in court with the measly allocation, saying judges and magistrates are still recording the proceedings manually, which takes time. Though SRC is charged with the duty of reviewing the salaries and benefits of State and public officers, according to the Constitution, the passing of the controversial clause will see each of the 416 MPs given a house allowance, a GK car fuelled and maintained by the taxpayer on top of their Sh7 million car grant, enhanced allowances for their foreign trips, among other benefits.   Already among the best-paid legislators, MPs still want better terms.