Saturday’s controversy involving former President Daniel arap Moi's grandson Collins Moi abandoning his girlfriend in Kitale with unpaid hotel bill, is not the first. Collins, the son of Jonathan Toroitich Moi, was in 2016 charged with stealing two mobile phones from two women. Appearing before Chief Magistrate David Kemei, Collins denied taking the gadgets, each valued at Sh10,000, at a function at the Nakuru Agricultural Showground. The case was later withdrawn after the family agreed to settle the matter out of court. Early this month, Collins' girlfriend was detained for over a week at a high-end hotel in Kitale for failing to clear a bill after they were booked in for days at the facility. Collins was said to have sneaked out of the hotel last Saturday, leaving her behind. Hotel administrators said they had no choice but to detain her until the Sh100,000 bill is cleared. According to Skynest Hotel management, Collins, the son of Mr Jonathan Moi, and his girlfriend Marsha Amario checked in on December 29 at 5pm and booked themselves in for six days as part of her birthday celebrations. SNEAKED OUT Marsha is said to be the daughter of the late Naivasha-based businessman Fai Omar Amario, who owned the famed Naivasha winery. By the next day the bill had shot up to Sh9,000 and they were advised to make some payments but they did not heed. "We tried to engage Collins to pay the bill when it was manageable but he responded that he will pay the following day," said Mr Timothy Simiyu, a manager at the hotel. After five days, when the hotel management told him to sort out the bill before being provided more services he sneaked out of the hotel leaving the girlfriend stranded. Last Saturday, he was called by the management and he said he was at Kabarak and that they should treat his girlfriend right as he was sourcing for funds to clear the bill by the following day. The promise was not fulfilled. Last Tuesday, Marsha called via the hotel phone and he said he was still at Kabarak and that he would send a friend but that didn't happen. On Wednesday, he was said to have been unavailable on phone when his girlfriend tried to reach him. Without any response, the management called the police on Thursday. Marsha was arrested and taken to Kitale Police Station and held overnight.   The boyfriend, Collins Moi, is said to have sneaked out of the hotel last Saturday, leaving her behind.