Now is that time when newspaper cartoons show 2018 as a decrepit old man with a scythe giving way to a bright young child marked 2019. The idea is that we sweep horrible old 2018 out of sight in the belief that 2019 will be better, though we know full well this might never be. Indeed with Donald Trump in office in America and the Brexiteers causing havoc here, who’s to say things won’t be worse? Speaking for myself, 2018 was a case of keeping on keeping on. OK, I tumbled down some station steps and managed to slip going up an escalator, but sustained no injuries in either case. I got more Christmas cards than I did the year before and the proliferation of whisky and chocolates indicated that my nearest and dearest still remember my unhealthy predilections. BOOKSHOP I may have fallen asleep in front of the telly more than before but I can still stay awake throughout a feature-length movie and I enjoyed two outstanding films made in 2018 — Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri, and The Death of Stalin, plus one I only just caught up with, Calvary, with that great Irish actor, Brendan Gleason. For all its problems, London continued to offer pleasure and I enjoyed lunches of classic French cuisine with friends at Mon Plaisir in Monmouth Street, usually after a morning spent in a bookshop along Piccadilly. Waterstones boasts of 200,000 titles on eight miles of shelves over six floors, with comfy leather couches to sprawl on, while Hatchard’s, at Number 187, said to be the oldest bookshop in the United Kingdom, has 100,00 volumes in store and says it can get you any it doesn’t have in hours. Being addicted to real-life espionage, outstanding 2018 reads for me concerned two members of the Cambridge University network of Soviet agents before, during and after the Second World War. The books were A Spy Among Friends, Ben Macintyre’s account of Kim Philby’s betrayals, and A Spy Named Orphan: The Enigma of Donald Maclean, by Roland Phillips. TSAFENDAS During my time as a foreign correspondent, I worked with reporters who had known Philby and/or Maclean, but I never met the spies themselves and I’m rather glad I didn’t, because I don’t know how I would have reacted. My own principal literary endeavour last year was as the junior partner to my friend Harris Dousemetzis in writing The Man Who Killed Apartheid, a book which exposed the greatest lie and cover-up in South African history. When Dimitri Tsafendas, a Mozambican of mixed race, stabbed Prime Minister Hendrik Verwoerd to death in Parliament in Cape Town in 1966, the apartheid regime went to extreme lengths to portray him as insane. To suggest otherwise would have been to admit that opposition existed to the policy of apartheid, of which Verwoerd was the architect, and obviously that was a major no-no. SANE What’s more, that a known Communist had been allowed to work at the heart of government (Tsafendas was a parliamentary messenger) would have dealt a devastating blow to the iron reputation of the security services. The fact, as Mr Dousemetzis’s research proved beyond doubt, was that Tsafendas was perfectly sane and entirely political. However, he was detained in prisons or mental institutions for life, dying in 1999. Our hope is that the South African government will soon formally renounce the lie and proclaim Tsafendas the national hero he was. If nothing else happens in 2019, that will be a key event for me. * * * More of those ridiculous calls to the authorities, in this case to the foreign office in London or to British embassies and consulates around the world. One man wanted to know if there were vampires in Poland because a Polish woman he asked for a date wanted to know what blood type he was. A Briton asked diplomats to speak to a massage parlour in Bangkok because he had fallen asleep during a massage and felt he should not have to pay for it. Someone in Italy asked the embassy to help arrange his wedding, to recommend a florist and to get the happy couple tickets to see the Pope. A caller asked for a list of women in Argentina whom he might want to marry. * * * Something that is hard to escape at this time is the pressure to make New Year resolutions. One poll demonstrated that the three most common intentions are to eat healthier, to take more exercise and to save more money. But almost equally popular was the determination by at least a third of those polled to make no New Year resolutions at all. Slightly different to resolutions are New Year wishes. I suspect a Welshman on British TV reflected the views of many when he said his wish was that Donald Trump and the Brexiteers should be abducted by aliens. Gerryo69@hotmail.com   The year 2018 was a case of keeping on keeping on.