Champions Gor Mahia were held to a 1-1 stalemate by leaders Mathare United in a SportPesa Premier League match at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani on Sunday. Rwandese import Jacques Tuyisenge converted from the spot the breakthrough goal for Gor on 32 minutes after Lawrence Juma was hacked in the box by Mathare United goalkeeper Allan Owiny. Kevin Kimani restored parity from yet another penalty awarded after James Situma was adjudged to have been clipped inside the box by Boniface Omondi on 56 minutes. Legendary striker Dennis Oliech was given a standing ovation by a sizeable crowd that turned up at the 60,000-seater when he replaced Nicholas Kipkirui on 68 minutes. His return to the Kenyan top flight football after 16 years, however ended just with a few applause from the fans. Oliech had few sniffs at goal but lacked the final touch that would’ve made the difference. The 10th draw in 23 meetings between this two sides sees Mathare reclaim top spot with 14 points, one ahead of second-placed Tusker after six rounds. Gor, who face Posta Rangers on Wednesday in a rescheduled fixture, are on seven points from five games. The Ugandan shot-stopper, making his debut for the Slum Boys, came out of his line to stop Boniface Omondi’s deep cross from the left flank but ended up fouling an onrushing Juma in an attempt to gather the ball. Mathare had fluffed glorious chances before conceding. On 21 minutes, James Kinyanjui brilliantly worked some space for the cross putting it on a plate for Cliff Nyakeya who somehow failed to convert into an empty net from three yards. The 2008 champions had another staggering miss a minute later this time James Situma’s delightful cross being cleared by Joash Onyango for a corner kick that Clifford Alwanga’s header skimmed over the bar. Kevin Kimani’s deep free kick from outside 18 after Ernest Wendo had brought down Nyakeya veered off the target on the 26th minute. Gor were forced to make a change on 63 minutes after Joash Onyango was hobbled off the pitch with a knock. Pascal Ogweno replaced him. Batambuze’s rasping shot from 30 yards on 70 minutes was parried out by Owiny for a corner before Oliech missed a free header from a Batambuze cross on 75 minutes.   Timona Wanyonyi had fired Mount Kenya ahead in the eighth minute.