Parents paralysed learning at Koilsir Primary School in Kericho County on Tuesday during their protest against the delayed opening of the secondary section. Many noted that they shopped for their children in advance in readiness for opening day. CAMP They said that when they turned up for admission on Monday, at the institution in Soin-Sigowet Sub-county, they were told the section would not be opened after all. The parents' protests began last Friday, the day when the secondary section was to be officially opened. They therefore camped at the main gate of the primary section, demanding that the Education ministry address them and that area MP Kipsengeret Koross fulfill his promise to open the school. About 750 primary schools pupils were sent home indefinitely on day two of their return from the holidays. Also turned away were 34 enthusiastic Form One students who were to make up the first class at Koilsir Secondary School. GREEN LIGHT Mr Cosmas Sambu, a representative of the parents, said the ministry gave the primary school board the green light for the secondary section. Mr Sambu further said that the head teacher set aside two classrooms only for the learners to be turned away on the reporting date. "I was part of the committee that represented the community in pushing for the creation of a secondary school because our children had been suffering, travelling several kilometres to access education," said Mr Sambu. He said the ministry approved their request and that they also got assurance from the Constituency Development Fund that more classrooms would be set up. "We were in for a rude shock after marketing the school and attracting many learners who shopped for uniforms and books. Mr Stanley Hii, the sub-county director of education, sat with our head teacher and rescinded the agreement," he said. HOPE Reached for comment, both Mr Hii and the head teacher, Mr Boniface Koech, said the matter beyong them - that it was being handled by county director of education, Mr Fredrick Sewe. "All I can say is that the process of setting up the secondary school section is on course," the head teacher told the Nation on phone. Due to the pressure from the parents, he called off classes and left the school with the pupils. The parents were left camping at the school field with the hope that the sub-county director would drop by and address their grievances. The director had not responded by press time.   Chiefs in Meru expected to ensure all candidates sat KCPE exam transit to secondary schools.