It is the chairman’s turn at Nyali Golf and Country Club, Mombasa this weekend, following the colourful Captain’s Prize last weekend. Outgoing chairman Kelli Muindi who served as the club captain in 2016 before being elected as the vice chairman in 2017 and chairman last year, has managed to bring together a field of 180 players who will be battling it out for the overall title and an array of prizes offered by the chairman who, besides his friends, has attracted the sponsorship from Kelon Insurance Brokers limited and Johnnie Walker. Unlike the captain’s Prize last weekend, the Chairman’s Prize open to all men and lady members, will be a one- day affair. “Last year was a great one for Nyali as we had a smooth running of the affairs of the club and I must at this particular moment appreciate the support and co-operation I had from all the members and the board. It was once again great to serve the club in the position of chairman’’ said Muindi who last weekend fired in one over the 186 –yard par three-10th hole, his second hole in one in his golfing career. During the Captain’s prize, South Africa-based Daniel Nduva, the current Kenya Amateur Match Play champion, and Mathew Wahome were in great form. He fired level par 71 for net 72 during the opening round. He followed that with 36 points the following day for a differential of 36 points to finish just a point behind the overall winner Aharub Khatri. Wahome on the other hand shot four over par for a start though he did not play wrell the following day. This may he weekend and so are others like Philip Mbugua, William Kaguta, Martin Wahome, Ian Marshall and junior golfer Andrew Wahome who has been playing well lately In the ladies section, Rapthi De Silva who took the ladies title last weekend, will once again face a stiff challenge from Mary Kandu, Joyce Masai, Mary Mariga, Alice Wahome, Christine Ockotch, Susan Stokes, Terry Odoo and outgoing lady captain Pauline Gachihi among others. Elsewhere, Kiambu Golf Club is where the action will be as the Communications Authority hosts its annual golf event. As usual the event has attracted a huge field of 168 golfers, more than what a nine-hole course can take. Hence teeing off is set for 6.30am to make sure that at least half of the field plays in the morning section. Communications Authority(CA) has lined up prizes for those who will conquer the tough par 72 Kiambu course. Besides club members, the event has attracted a big contingent of players from other clubs will be guests of the sponsors. But leading the challenge for the members will be some of the club’s single figure handicap golfers such as John Ngure, Michael Karanga, Mike Ngere and Steve Kiaro. Joyce Wanjiru and Wanjiru will be among the ladies who will be battling it out for the ladies title while guests include Vet Lab’s Mary Karano and ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru among many others. In Machakos, Lady Captain Jennifer Ngure will be hosting the 2018 Lady Captain’s Prize, her second one, having also served as lady captain in 2017. The event which has attracted a field of 180 players some of them having been drawn to play today. Both, Friday and Saturday’s event will be sponsored by Thika Motor Dealers, Safaricom and East African Breweries as well as friends of the lady captain. “I am so grateful for all the sponsors who have come out in a big numbers to support my lady captain’s prize. It is a great honour for me as well as the club’’ said Ngure. With those numbers, Ngure will need to get strong marshals to make sure that the event runs smoothly and that all the players finish their round. Ngure says a lot of fabulous prizes will be up for grab in the various categories which include guests . The par 72 Machakos which hosted the King of the Course Year Opener recently, is reported to be in great condition and all set to host the Lady Captain’s Prize which comes few weeks before Machakos’s major golf tournament, the Kenya Ports Authority Open which is set for February 9.  