Lamu County Commissioner Joseph Kanyiri has cautioned locals to beware of individuals who have been posting advertisements for non-existent jobs. This is after it was established that there are fraudsters who are posing as officials in charge of the forthcoming national population census set for August. According to Mr Kanyiri, the fraudsters who are posting the suspicious adverts are also demanding huge “employment fees”. Such averts are always put on the internet as well as posters which have been circulating secretly across Lamu County. Mr Kanyiri warned the locals against being duped into giving their money to such individuals whom he termed as dubious. PROBE ON “As we near the census, I want to caution locals, particularly the youth, against being conned of your money by fake job advertisers posing as census officials. Those adverts you see on social media and posters demanding for cash from applicants are fake. You should therefore beware of those unreliable jobs being put up all over so that you don’t fall prey to the conmen’s tricks. We are already investigating and those who are involved will be arrested and charged,” said Mr Kanyiri. NATIONAL CENSUS But Mr Kanyiri asked Lamu residents to willingly provide the required information in the forthcoming census so as to allow for proper planning and allocation of resources by the national government. The county commissioner’s sentiments come just a month after the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) warned Lamu locals of dubious individuals claiming to work for the body and conning unsuspecting members of the public. The conmen are said to be demanding cash so as to conduct non-existent surveys and censuses on behalf of the KNBS. In a recent interview with the Nation, KNBS Lamu Regional Officer Rodgers Kazungu said the body is directly sponsored by the national government and as such their services are absolutely free. Mr Kazungu asked locals to be on the lookout and report any fraudsters to the police for prompt action.  