Differences between Murang’a Governor Mwangi Wa Iria and his political nemesis Maragua MP Mary Waithira seem to be far from over after the legislator cast doubts on the governor's bursary programme targeting 1,000 students. After castigating the county administration over its plans to establish a surveillance team to ensure school do not send away students for lunch fees, the MP has now cast doubts on the sustainability of Mr Wa Iria’s bursary programme. She said before the county government decided to sponsor bright but needy students, it should have come up with a formula and structures to sustain the programme. STUDENTS' ZEAL Ms Waithira said failure by the county government to come up with a policy to award the students could see them move to day schools, a move she said could lower their zeal for education. "There is no point in a student being paid for term one fees [with] no assurance of [payment for] the rest of the terms. Both the county assembly and the county government should have come up with a formula with a structured programme to sustain the students for the four years in school. "As it stands, the plan lacks a formula and should it fail, the students will be transferred to day schools, killing their morale and the ego and they will hence post poor results," she said.   DEFENDED PROGRAMME But MCAs have defended the programme, dismissing the MP as a pessimist. The ward leaders exuded confidence that the programme will run smoothly. County Assembly Majority Leader Eric Kamande told the MP to keep off the activities of the county government, reminding her to concentrate on her constituency and stop meddling with county affairs. "Let the MP keep her unsolicited advice. We have not asked for it and we don't require it. We have never told her how to run her constituency and we don't expect her to advise us either," Mr Kamande told the Nation. PROPER PLANS Mr Kamande said the county government has proper plans for the students and that they are just helping them to join high school. He said that well-wishers are free to join in and help the students. "The MP can't afford to cater for all the students in her constituency and the same way she can't afford to use the CDF kitty to sponsor all the students, we too can't, but when they are admitted, other well-wishers are free to join the bandwagon and help them," the MCA told the Nation adding that the county leadership will be following up on the beneficiaries to ensure that they remain in school. The Maragua MP is a former nominated MCA and was the one behind the impeachment motion against Governor Wa Iria. Some MCAs have accused her of taking her personal vendetta too far. Nominated MCA Elizabeth Wambui said the MP has been harbouring a grudge against the governor and that is the reason she has been criticising his administration. "A time has come for the MP to square it out with the governor on the personal issues [the two may be having] instead of waiting for the governor [to speak and then] criticise [him]. This will hurt development and should be avoided," Ms Wambui said.  