Kenya hopes to send teams for the men and women’s International Amateur Boxing Association (AIBA) World Championships planned for later this year. Boxing Association of Kenya (BAK) competition secretary Patrick “Mont” Waweru disclosed Tuesday that Kenya will field a full “Hit Squad” side for the men’s contest due for September 7to 21 in Evaterinburg, Russia. Waweru, who made the announcement while releasing this year’s calendar of events, disclosed that the number of women for their championship that goes down after the men’s event in the other Russian city of Ulan Viole will be decided later. “Taking full team for the men’s event will depend on funds available and on the slots Kenya is likely to be given by AIBA,” said Waweru. “We have few female boxers hence their number will depend on who will have trained well.” Waweru noted that this year’s African Games slated for August 23 to September 3 will be key to both their men and women’s teams, since the championships will be used as a qualifier for the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games. Kenya was represented by a full team save for super heavyweight category during the last 2017 World Championships held in Hamburg, Germany. Boxing will be used for the first time at the African Games as a qualifier for the Olympic Games planned for Tokyo next year since the 2007 Algiers African Games. Waweru disclosed that Kenya will also field full teams at the Africa Boxing Championships slated for May at dates and venues to be ds9clioed later. The County Novices Championships will open the season on January 24 to 26 at the Counties, before paving way for the National Novices scheduled for February 14 to 18 at Nairobi’s Kaloleni Social Hall. That will then pave way for the County Intermediate Championships on March 7 to 9 at the Counties before the National Intermediate on March 28-30 in Nairobi. The National team selection will be done on April 24 to 27 at the City Stadium. Waweru indicated that the National Boxing league that will have five legs will get underway in Mwingi on May 23 to 25, with Thika hosting the second leg on July 18 to 20. Mombasa will staged the third leg on August 22 to 24, before the fourth leg and fifth legs in Nairobi on September 19 to 21 and October 31 to November 2 respectively.  