,A leadership row is once again simmering at the University of Nairobi as the institution’s council has rejected the names of three deputy vice-chancellors appointed by Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed. Ms Mohamed bypassed the names of candidates the council recommended for appointment after they emerged top in interviews conducted between January 7 and 9. The row has now landed at Attorney-General Kihara Kariuki's office for advisory opinion, the council insisting that Ms Mohamed overstepped her mandate. 'SWAP' The council chaired by Prof Julia Ojiambo had recommended Prof Isaac Mbeche, who scored 82.9percent for the position of DVC f finance, planning and development. However, Ms Mohamed appointed Prof Mohamud Jama who emerged second with 66.8percent. Prof Mbeche, who is also students affairs deputy VC has been the acting DVC of finance, planning and development since 2016 when Prof Bernard Njoroje was kicked out. Prof Mohamud has been the deputy principal of the College of Humanities and Social Sciences. The council had also recommend the appointment Prof Stephen Kiama, who scored 78.7percent in the interview as DVC human resource and administration but the CS has appointed Prof William Ogara who was third in the interview with 62 percent. It wanted Prof Madara Ogot, who emerged top with 76 percent to take over the as the DVC of research, production and extension but the Cs appointed Prof Lydia Njenga who emerged third with 63.1 percent. NO CONTRACTS It is only Prof Julius Ogeng’o whose recommendation for appointment as the DVC of academic affairs that was upheld by Ms Mohamed. The Nation has learnt that the council has resolved not to issue any contract to the ministry's choices pending the resolution of the crisis. The appointments are dated January 15 and the newly appointed DVCs have until Tuesday to accept the appointments. THE COUNCIL Members of the council include Mr Wanjuki Muchemi, Ms Flora Mtuweta, Mighulo Mghanga, Dr Jocelyn Marie Rarieya and Mr Hassan Abdi Mohamud. Others are Mr Isaac Chebon Kiprop, Mr Samuel Kiiru, who represents the Treasury principal secretary, and TVET PS Dr Kevit Desai, who represents the Ministry of Education. The council sent the CS a letter dated January in which it sought a meeting on the issue.   Prof Jama Mohamud to head the crucial Finance, Planning and Development .