Embu Governor Martin Wambora could face another impeachment motion over alleged slow implementation of development projects if members of the County Assembly (MCAs) make good their threats. The MCAs have complained that little is going on in the region and accused the governor of refusing to convene a leaders' meeting to discuss development. They pointed out that projects such as bridges and roads meant to benefit the residents have stalled, yet the governor is doing nothing to ensure that they are revived. "The construction of the Kwangochi and Kigumo bridges has stalled while the Mukenyu-Kathangari Road, which passes through rich agricultural, areas is in a deplorable state," Ruguru-Ngandori Ward Representative Muturi Mwambo, said. HOSPITALS The MCAs gave him a seven-day ultimatum to meet the leaders, failing which he will face their wrath. "I might sponsor a motion that will shake the entire region if the authority of the legislators and their quest to straighten Governor Wambora's administration is not respected,” Mr Mwambo said. Kithimu MCA Michael Njeru claimed that Mr Wambora has been overpowered by cartels that have ensured he does not sit with other elected leaders to chart the way forward in terms of growth. Meanwhile, Mbeti North MCA Peter Muriithi warned that the Governor might find himself in the same situation he was in in 2013. “We shall use the same whip we used in 2013 to kick the governor out of office," Mr Muriithi added. Speaking in Muthatari village on the outskirts of Embu Town during a funeral of Jubilee activist Wachira Ngiri, the MCAs said the health sector is in shambles, with drug shortages hitting medical facilities. SALARIES In addition, they claimed that the Sh50 million set aside for repairing Embu Stadium had been diverted to build a talent academy and Runyenjes Stadium without the assembly's approval. "It is illegal to transfer cash meant for a particular project to another without the endorsement of the assembly. What has happened is unacceptable," Mr Mwambo said. They also questioned why the Sh40 million grant for needy polytechnic students had not been distributed to the beneficiaries. The MCAs said even the residents and county workers are unhappy about the way the governor is running the county, adding that county workers’ salaries a usually delayed. “We would like to be told why workers are paid their dues late," an unidentified ward representative said. INCOMPETENT Further, Speaker Josiah Thiriku and his deputy Steve Simba also lashed out at the governor, likening him to a driver whose passengers (the electorate) are screaming. "MCAs will throw the driver out of the bus to save the passengers if he can't correct the wrongs that are making the people uncomfortable," Mr Simba, the Runyenjes Central ward representative, said. The assembly Speaker, Mr Josiah Thiriku said if the impeachment motion is tabled, he will clear it. Mr Wambora's personal assistant Alvin Mucangi dismissed the allegations as untrue.   Judge says petition by ex-Manyatta MP lacks merit.