Vet Lab Sports Club retained the Nairobi District Foursomes golf title for the third year in a row at Muthaiga Golf Club at the weekend. But this year it was the turn of Vet Lab’s 'B' team of Mike Kisia and Isaiah Otuke who an excellent performance, beating their 'A' team of Robinson Owiti and Edwin Mudanyi, who had won the title in 2017 and 2108, one-up in the final match. Kisia and Otuke started their campaign with a 3-2 victory against Windsor 'A' before beating Muthaiga 'B' 4-3 to qualify for the semi-finals against Limuru’s 'A' team of veteran Francis Kimani and former amateur strokeplay champion John Kariuki, who fought a close battle, taking the Vet Lab lads all the way to the 19th hole for Kisia and Otuke to set up an all Kabete final. The 'A' team (Owiti and Mudanyi) played Royal 'A' in the last 16 where they won 5-3 before beating Limuru 'B' 3-2 in the quarter-finals. Their toughest match was against the hosts Muthaiga’s 'A' team of Kushil Nathwani and Zubair Khan whom they eventually over powered at the 21st hole. In the final match, the 'B' team was two-up with two holes to play though the 'A' side reduced the margin with a birdie at the 17th. However, the two teams halved the 18th with birdies for ‘B’ to claim the title which Vet Lab will now keep for good. This year most of the teams like Royal, Windsor and Muthaiga fielded junior players which should be the case even in the Tannahill Shiled at Royal. At Vet Lab Sports Club, Ebill Omollo, playing off handicap three, carded nett 71 to win the ‘A’ division title in the November Monthly Mug beating Isaac Makokha and David Evans by a shot. In the ‘B’ division, Jamleck Kamau won with an impressive nett 67. In ‘C’ division, Daniel Ndegwa posted nett 71 to win. The ladies’ prize went to Grace Wanjohi on nett 74.At Ruiru Sports Club, Paul Kiarie fired nett 68 to win the New Year Golf tournament where Jacob Kambo was second on 69 nett, beating Watson Njenga on countback. Lucy Njuguna won the ladies first with 72 nett. Leading the guests was Fredrick Okwaya with nett 74 and the nines went to Samson Mwongela and James Njagu on 32 and 34 nett respectively. At Royal, Rugby star turned golfer Lavin Asego carded 38 points to claim the overall title in the Rotary Club of Madaraka Golf tournament. He won by one point from Ted Macharia and Job Kamau.  