Eliud Kipchoge’s story is like a book that one would love to read time and again. Yes! Kipchoge has been in the news since the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio and there seems to be no end to this sweet story. To cut the long story short, Kipchoge finally broke the record in Berlin in September last year after dominating marathon scene for close to two years. The Olympic marathon champion started the year strongly with victory at London Marathon posting two hours, four minutes and 17 seconds on April 22, which was the 15th fastest time over the distance.This was after he had won on the same course in 2015, clocking 2:04:42 and in 2016 in 2:03:05, then missing the world record by just eight seconds. However, the moment Kipchoge was patiently and persistently been thirsting for came at Berlin Marathon when he broke the world record by one minute and 18 seconds, setting a new time of 2:01:39 in the Germany capital. On his way to the WR and his third Berlin Marathon title, Kipchoge also broke the 30km world record setting new time of 1:26:45. This feat has earned him all that is there is to win starting with United Nations Person of the Year.This did not end there as Kip become the second Kenya to win the IAAF Athlete of the Year after David Rudisha in 2010.Before we could digest this, organisers of Soya Awards had no choice but to reward Kip the overall title during the awards.But even before dust had settled, Kipchoge was in the news again confirming that he will run London Marathon on April 18, setting up a mouth-watering clash with Britain’s Mo Farah.He was quoted as saying: “It is always a great honour to come and race the Virgin Money London Marathon and I’m excited to be returning in 2019.” He is also looking forward to the battle with Sir Mo Farah again. The two are currently joint leaders of the World Marathon Majors Series XII and it promises to be a thriller. Of course, I will be waiting for this race but being a huge fan of Kipchoge, my year will be made if he confirms participation at the World Championships in Doha, Qatar.We all know that the only medal missing in his shelf is the world marathon gold and Doha could just provide that forum.Indeed, we haven’t seen the last of Kipchoge and I wouldn’t be surprised if he shatters his own record again someday. Just watch this space! Korir is the chairman of Athletics Kenya’s Nairobi branch. barnabakorir@yahoo.com  