IDEAL EGG PRODUCTIONHow long does a hen take to lay eggs? Is there a minimum or maximum timeline? Kr Hens will start laying eggs between 18 to 22 weeks of age. But not all hens in a flock will lay eggs at the same rate. Some may come into production earlier while others go out of production earlier. Egg production curve in a flock tells you the number of eggs laid in a given day as a proportion of the total number of hens in your flock. The laying curve has two cycles. Laying peaks rapidly from the age of 28 weeks reaching a maximum of 80-90 per cent for a period of six months. Thereafter, production fluctuates as it decreases gradually. This will last for six months. Production resumes at 72 weeks of age. But it cannot go beyond 60 per cent and will only last for a short period. When the production is constantly below 50 per cent, it is economical to dispose the hens as culls for meat. If they delay, please try to minimise stress by ensuring your birds are fed on high quality meals from chicks through growers phase, water, proper housing, lighting, spacing and are disease-free. Dennis Kigiri,Department of Animal Science,Egerton University. **** I NEED TRAINING ON REARING BLACK SOLDIER FLY Where can I be trained on black soldier fly rearing at affordable charges?Maara You can get training on black soldier fly rearing from International Centre for Insects and Physiology and Ecology (Icipe) in Nairobi. Contact them through icipe@icipe.org or +254-20-8632000. Carol Mutua,Department of Crops, Horticulture, and Soils, Egerton University. **** GROWING KIWI I am interested in planting kiwi fruit. Kindly advise on the market and ups and downs of the trade. Jeff Langat, Bomet County Kiwi does well in temperate regions of Kenya like central, western highlands and central Rift Valley. It can grow on a wide range of soils as long as they are well-drained and have a pH of 5.0-6.5. The plant is shallow-rooted and, therefore, requires frequent irrigation. Use of too much fertiliser causes burning of the roots, therefore, it is advisable to use manure. Kiwi fruits sell at Sh100-Sh150 each. Kiwi produces male and female flowers on different plants, therefore, one male plant is required to pollinate eight female ones. Remember the male plants do not produce fruits and their sole function is to fertilise the females. The plants also require training and wind breaks should be planted to protect them from strong winds. Kiwi fruits are highly nutritious and the demand in Kenya is high compared to the supply. Carol Mutua,Department of Crops, Horticulture, and Soils, Egerton University. **** FEEDING AN IN-CALF HEIFER I am a new farmer and my heifer has about two months to calve down. Please give the exact name of the recommended feeds. Emma Mumbua Gestation length of cows vary with age of dam, breed, and sex of the calf. It ranges from 279 to 287 days. For most breeds, 283 days is common. Cows carrying bull calves tend to have a slightly longer gestation compared to those carrying heifer calves. It is important to make sure that your heifer is fed on a balanced diet meeting its energy and protein requirements. This is achieved by feeding fresh and wilted fodders, moulds free silage, clean water always and high quality grass. You can also supplement the heifer with some dairy meal from a reputable company to meet the nutrient deficiencies from grass. Important to note that during the last two months to calving down, there is major feotal development and appetite goes down within this period and immediately after calving down. As a result, give them high quality feeds and water to avoid complications after calving. Dennis Kigiri,Department of Animal Science, Egerton University. **** HOW DRIP IRRIGATION SYSTEM WORKS Please educate me on what is involved in drip irrigation to make it successful to grow vegetables. Second, do common crops do well under drip irrigation? Mohamed Salim, Ruiri, Meru county Drip irrigation is the most economical way of irrigating your crops because it uses very little water. It can be done using a bottle filled with water and then inserted near the root zone of the crop or by us of drip lines, which are bought. The aim of using drip irrigation is to give plants water directly into the root zone and reduce evaporation. Most crops will do well with drip irrigation. Carol MutuaDepartment of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** RWANDESE ARROWROOTS There is an article that touched some Rwandese arrowroot variety (darsheen and Eddoe). I will be glad if you can advise how to get seedlings. Samuel Karanja The two varieties are available at Kalro, Thika. Carol Mutua,Department of Crops, Horticulture, and Soils, Egerton University.   For questions or enquiries on agribusiness, marketing, logistics, processing, innovation, and technology? Send your questions to: satnation@ke.nationmedia.com