Two-time World Cross Country champion Geoffrey Kamworor is expected to beat a strong field at the National Police Cross Country Championships at Ngong Racecourse, Nairobi on Saturday. Kamworor, who is participating in the cross country event for the first time, said that he is up to the task when he lines up on Saturday for the 10km senior category. “My training has been going on well and I will be looking forward to retaining my title at the National Police Cross Country Championships on Saturday. This is my first cross country event and I know competition will be stiff,” said the athlete. The Kaptagat-based athlete believes he has prepared well ahead of the national trials at Eldoret Sports Club on February 23. The Kenyan team, selected during the trials, will represent the country in the World Cross Country Championships to be held in Aarhus, Denmark in March. “I will be using the race to gauge myself before we line up for the national trials in February where I will be looking forward to represent my country in the global event as I eye a third title,” added Kamworor who has been christened ‘man of all surfaces’. The athlete came in third position in New York Marathon in November last year after clocking 2:06:26 in a race won by Lelisa Desisa followed by Shura Kitata. The athlete boasts of training with a click of top athletes notably world marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge. Last year during the Police Cross Country Championships, Kamworor beat a strong field to win the race in 29:11.2 ahead of Noah Kipkemboi who came second in 29:28.2 while Josphat Bett settled for third position in 29:32.5. His training mate, Hyvin Kiyeng, will also be lining up for the senior women's 10km race where she will be looking for a place in the national trials. Kiyeng, a former 3,000m steeplechase world champion, told Nation Sport that her training has been good so far and she will see how her body will react during the championships. “My build-up training was good and I will be participating in the championships as I look forward to get a slot in the national trials,” said the soft-spoken athlete. Kiyeng finished fifth during the 2017 World Cross Country Championships held in Kampala, Uganda a race that saw Kenya take the first six positions. Other athletes expected in the race includes former 800m world champion Eunice Sum, defending champion Stacy Ndiwa, Margaret Chelimo and Augustine Choge among others. The Police championships are usually held before the national trials which are used to select a team that will represent Kenya at the World Cross Country Championships.  