The month of February is just around the corner. It usually comes with blessings for those in love in the form of showers of roses, promises and proposals. The young and the young at heart wait for a whole year for that very special Valentine celebration this month. However, the Kenyan show goers and music lovers are a blessed lot this February as the month dawns with showers of theatrical and musical presentations that are certain to delight them. Amruta Gandhi- Not Guilty, a Gujarati theatrical presentation by veteran showman Mehul Savani is the first offering. No it is not one of the usual comedies that come our way from India, on the contrary it is a thriller with multiple emotions and suspense — a story of a woman’s battle against the age old hypocrisy of the society. This theatrical experience of a kind is directed by the well-known Indian actor Mehul Buch who arrives with a group of talented stage and screen stars to provide us with a dramatic evening on Saturday, February 2, at the Oshwal Centre Auditorium. To book in advance for this epic story of a woman’s fight against ills of law and society call Mehul Savani on 0733614539. Following this thriller, Navrang Fine Arts Foundation (NFAF) will celebrate the iconic Indian singer who gave a fresh lease of life to the art of traditional Ghazal singing and romanticised his compositions delivering them in a voice that has mesmerised a generation. The singer Jagjit Singh during his lifetime visited Kenya severally and is still loved and adored by ardent fans here and the world over. Kahan Tum Chale Gaye (where have you gone) is a very apt title of the tribute to the cherished maestro to be staged at the Oshwal Centre stage on Sunday, February 10, 2019 in the evening. NFAF has invited the charming melody princess Gayatri Asokan and her Indian musicians for this melodious tribute. Ghazal lovers fell in love with Gayatri during her last concert Hazaron Khwahishen at the same venue in Nairobi last year in March. To witness this soulful tribute and relive cherished memories of Jagjit Singh readers can contact Karibu Travels and Tours or call 0733744337. And as we bid farewell to January, Kenbharti Centre have announced the presentation of Maa Tujhe Salaam VIII — the eighth episode of the salutations mother at the Oshwal Junior Academy stage on Saturday the 26 January 2019. This prestigious salutation coincides with the Indian Republic Day celebration and will feature renowned Indian poets Mumtaz Naseem, Dinesh Raghuvanshi and Sudeep Bhola who have flown out of India to entertain and enlighten us with their poetic recitations laced with literary and patriotic flavour. Be there to celebrate and rejoice call 0721468104 for booking details. Finally, this evening you have been warned that laughter is forbidden at Hindi Samiti of East Africa’s celebration of the Indian Republic Day festivity. The Samiti in association with Indian Council of Cultural Relations and High Commission of India are all set to host Hansana Mana Hai at the Oshwal Centre Auditorium.  qureshi@simbatech.biz   A cinematic presentation released by Bollywood fascinated me recently.