The National Super Alliance (Nasa) has forwarded another nominee to Nairobi Governor Mr Mike Sonko for consideration as deputy governor. This comes just a day after some MPs in the Orange Democratic Movement, led by Secretary-General Edwin Sifuna, protested a similar move last week, saying the coalition was "dead". "NASA ALIVE" Ms Rahab Wangui Ndambuki (Wiper) was first to be nominated and on Monday, Nasa chief executive Norman Magaya notified Governor Sonko of nominee Jane Muringi Wangui (ODM). In the letter, Mr Magaya acknowledged their first one to Mr Sonko on January 10. “I know the mindset of our principals. As far as I am concerned, Nasa is alive and is there to stay for as long as it takes,” he said. "This morning (Monday), Mr Odinga instructed me to do another letter to Mr Sonko, which I did.” Mr Magaya said the comments by Mr Sifuna and the others were "very unfortunate" and that anybody doubting the existence of the coalition should go to the Registrar of Political Parties to check its status. The Political Parties Act recognises coalitions whose agreements were deposited at the registrar’s office immediately after being signed. The law states that any member who wishes to withdraw from the groups must write an official letter to the registrar stating the reasons why as serve the partners. So far this has not happened, at least according to Mr Magaya. “Those doubting can check the records at the registrar’s office on any working day,” he said. DISQUIET Last Friday, Mr Magaya wrote a letter to Governor Sonko of the coalition’s desire to have Ms Ndambuki deputise him. The letter triggered disquiet in the coalition that brings together former Prime Minister Raila Odinga of ODM, Kalonzo Musyoka of Wiper Democratic Movement, Musalia Mudavadi of Amani National Congress and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula of Ford Kenya. Mr Sifuna, who led Seven ODM MPs to a church service in Nairobi’s Embakasi South Constituency on Sunday, dismissed Mr Magaya’s letter saying Nasa 'died' on January 30, 2018, when Mr Odinga was crowned the people’s president at a mock swearing-in ceremony at Uhuru Park. “We did not send any name for the deputy governorship position because we do not want to be associated with the mess that happened in Nairobi," he said adding; “There is no Nasa. It died long ago.” IGATHE Mr Magaya’s first letter saw Mr Sonko postpone the naming of his deputy despite promising to do so following the resignation of Mr Polycarp Igathe last year. "I was ready with a nominee but I received a letter from Nasa requesting me to consider their nominee. Therefore, I shall not be forwarding the name in the spirit of 'handshake' to allow for more consultation," Mr Sonko said. Mr Igathe said he opted out because he had tried in vain to earn his boss’ trust. Before joining the governor, he was the Managing Director of Vivo Energy. He is now Equity Group’s Chief Commercial Officer. The hope had been that Mr Igathe and Mr Sonko would strike a balance given their experiences in service to Nairobians. MURINGI Mr Magaya described Ms Muringi as "academically and professionally well-grounded with vast experience in management of public affairs" She grew up in Embakasi North where she went on to vie of MP, so the Nasa boss said she understands the people's needs and aspirations and "will be a great complement to you (Mr Sonko) as you deliver on your promises and manifesto". He added that she is keen on details and dynamic as she has organisational experience.   ODM secretary-general says NASA is long dead and the party wants nothing with City Hall mess.