Bishop Njenga from Lugari constituency in Kakamega County are one win away from retaining the girls title in the Western region Chapa Dimba na Safaricom football tournament. The defending champions Saturday beat Bungoma County's Brenda Girls by a solitary goal in a thrilling semi-final match played at Bukhungu stadium to secure a ticket for Sunday’s final. In the contest which was the second semi-final of the day, both teams created early chances but failed to convert, until the 48th minute when Violet Wanyonyi tapped in from close range to put Bishop Njenga ahead. Brenda Girls made several efforts to equalise in the second half but they were denied by an alert Ritah Atieno in Njenga’s goal. The 1-0 scoreline in favour of the defending champions means that the girls' finals will be an all Kakamega County affair after Ibinzo Girls from Lurambi constituency edged out Kingadole from Busia 2-1 in the first semi-final. Phelister Nabwire gave Ibinzo an early lead in the seventh minute, before adding a second on 33 minutes with a strike from outside the box. Ann Mwalobi halved the deficit in the 48th minute. In their post-match remarks to Nation Sport, coaches of the two finalists expressed confidence of carrying the day on Sunday, saying their charges were well prepared. “We are sure of winning the title again because we have dominated the competition. I don't think we can stumble now. The girls are ready to do the work tomorrow,” said Bishop Njenga’s Fred Sirenge. His opposite number Edgar Kilobi said: “We are happy to have qualified for the finals. It will be difficult tomorrow but we are ready for the job.” In the boys’ finals, the hard duel will be between The Saints from Mumias and Lugari Blue Saints from Kakamega. The Saints were the first to book a final ticket with a 4-0 thrashing of Ebu Stars in a match whose proceedings they dictated from the first whistle. Felix Omondi netted the opener in the 10th minute, before Kato Atem grabbed a brace in the 52nd and 70th minutes. Venadine Ambedsa sealed the victory for Coach Sylvanus Were’s side with a cool finish, one minute before time. Brian Lusamakha and Denis Azusa each scored a goal to help Lugari beat Bukembe Friends 2-0 in the other semi-final. A team of certified La Liga coaches are present for the regional finals scouting for talented boys and girls who will make up an all-star team. That team will attend a training camp in Spain and also play against a local youth side.  