Meru politics took a turn on Saturday after East African Legislative Assembly MP Mpuru Aburi and some ward representatives declared war on Governor Kiraitu Murungi’s administration. The politicians accused the county of lacking priorities in development. PROJECTS Mr Aburi, Murungi’s friend-turned-foe, kicked off the storm by declaring that he had abandoned the governor's camp and would campaign against him. “I fought against former governor Peter Munya and called for the election of Mr Murungi because I thought there was no development. I have now declared opposition to Mr Murungi because he is not developing the county," he said. "I am opposed to the conversion of the Meru County Hotel to offices. It is wrong for the county to plant trees along Meru-Nanyuki highway; this is wastage of public resources." In October last year, Governor Murungi launched the Meru highways beautification and greening programming, that has seen trees planted on both side of the 65-kilometer highway. He said the goals were to conserve the environment and make highways attractive to tourists. “Let it be known that I have left Kiraitu’s camp. I rallied the Meru people to elect him but I will now lead the opposition," Mr Aburi said on Saturday. WARD FUNDS Members of county assembly including Minority Leader Ayub Bundi, Elias Murega (Municipality), George Kaliunga (Antubetwe Kiongo) and Lucy Mukaria (nominated) faulted the governor for saying he had given each MCA Sh20 million for ward development. They said they were displeased with the governor's new year message in which he said he would tour all wards to inspect work done using the Sh900 million set aside for ward development. “The governor should account for all development funds. We will take him to task for the work he is doing. You have been told MCAs were given Sh20 million for development but this money is in the governor’s custody,” Mr Murega said. Ms Mukaria noted the MCAs oversight role. “The claim that the governor will come to see projects done by MCAs is false. MCAs are only involved in identification of development projects in their wards. The governor implements them,” she said. Mr Muriuki, who backed Mr Munya in the 2017 vote, said "Meru is being sank’ by his administration. 2022 Igembe North MP Maore Maoka, however, warned the politicians against delving into matters concerning the 2022 general election. Mr Maoka told them that they should instead support the national government's war on corruption and the Building Bridges Initiative. “This is the time to work. The time for elections is not anywhere near us. Those who want to introduce us to 2022 politics are after money,” he said. The MPs spoke during the launch of the autobiography of former North Imenti MP Silas Muriuki, A Life of Choices, that coincided with celebrations for his 70th birthday. UHURU SUPPORT Trade Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya, the chief guest at the event, urged leaders to unite and back President Uhuru Kenyatta’s big four agenda instead of politicking. Mr Munya rubbished claims that the President's support in Central was waning and defended his development record. He said Mr Kenyatta will give the region guidance when he finishes his second term. “Central Kenya is not divided. We are fully behind the president and back his agenda and the war on corruption. Let us tone down the politics and support the BBI. It is strange for any human being to oppose the BBI," he said.   Murungi called for a close working relationship with legislators and other leaders.