The death of a child is nearly always devastating. The cuddle cot helps preserve the body of a deceased new-born for days, allowing parents to hold them and take pictures. The death of a child is nearly always devastating and typically followed by an outpouring of support while parents mourn. But when a baby dies before it is born or shortly thereafter, parents are often alone in a hospital with a limited source of comfort and little, if any, opportunity to say goodbye to the baby — or babies. REFRIGERATED BABY BED Enter the CuddleCot, a kind of refrigerated baby bed that helps preserve the body of a deceased newborn for days. The device gives parents a chance to bond with their babies — to love and hold them, take pictures, even take them home and take them for walks, creating memories to last a lifetime. A 2016 study in Michigan of 377 bereaved women whose babies were stillborn or died soon after birth found that they were four times more likely to be depressed and seven times more likely to experience symptoms of post-traumatic stress than were 232 mothers with live babies. High levels of psychological distress persisted for at least nine months among the women whose babies had died. In the Michigan study, directed by Dr Katherine J. Gold and colleagues at the University of Michigan, 18 women whose babies had died reported that they didn’t get to see them, 36 did not get to hold their infants, and 34 reported that they were told they could not hold them. In an interview, Chris Fricker said that thanks to the CuddleCot, “Brittany, our labour and delivery nurse, told us we could spend as much time as we wanted with our babies,” who were born just shy of 23 weeks gestation weighing 1 pound, 1 ounce each. “We held them, told them how much we loved them and had them baptised. We got to choose when to say goodbye to them, about 12 hours later.” GIFT OF TIME In deciding on a CuddleCot donation, Fricker said, “We tried to think of a way to memorialise our babies. What better way than to provide other parents the gift of time to spend with babies they lost.” The Frickers have already raised money to make a second and possibly a third donation of a CuddleCot, this time to “a hospital in an underserved community where it can make an impact on a big group of people who otherwise wouldn’t have access to something like this,” Chris Fricker said. “A loss is a loss regardless of who experiences it.” CuddleCot donations provide “a way for families to do something good out of the tragedy that happened to them,” said Dr Tracy Arghavani, obstetrician-gynecologist at Northwestern Medicine Huntley Hospital. Emily Fricker said some 400 to 500 hospitals in this country have CuddleCots available, “most donated by families like ours.” And last August, St. Peter’s Hospital in Albany, New York, received a Cuddle Cot donated by Kristin McVeigh-Parente, president, and David Parente, vice president, of the McVeigh Funeral Home in Albany after they were told of the need by the March of Dimes. The CuddleCot was invented in Britain, where 10 babies are stillborn every day. According to the manufacturer, Flexmort, 92 percent of hospitals in Britain have at least one CuddleCot. The 8-pound device is basically a small crib or bassinet with a refrigerated unit under a mattress. SLOWS DETERIORATION The cold slows the deterioration of body tissues to preserve deceased babies and keep them looking as good as possible. Without such a unit, soon after the delivery babies that die are placed in the hospital’s morgue, giving grieving parents limited access. Parents are often told they wouldn’t want to see their babies, creating the impression that the babies look monstrous or awful. But those kept in a CuddleCot look as if they’re sleeping. In addition to creating memories of their babies, albeit limited ones, the refrigerated cot can give grieving parents more time to come to terms with their loss and gain closure. “When women find out that they’re pregnant, they immediately begin making plans for the baby,” Arghavani said. “When they lose that baby, it’s like someone stole their dreams. The loss of an unborn child can be just as heart-wrenching as the loss of a born child.” When a baby dies before birth, the woman has to go through labor and delivery just as in a viable pregnancy. In such cases, Arghavani said, “women are often afraid — they’re not quite sure they want to hold the baby. The CuddleCot enables the baby to stay in the room and gives them the opportunity to take the time they need to make a decision.”   