Harambee Stars captain Victor Wanyama will stay at English Premier League side Tottenham Hotspur, his agent Ivan Modia Yanez has said. The 27-year-old has been linked with a move to with Italian Serie A outfit AS Roma, with Premier League side West Ham United also interested in the Kenyan. “There’s no chance that Victor will leave Tottenham in January,” Modia was quoted on Italian portal, LaRoma24.it. “I’ve not had contact with Roma Director of Football Monchi regarding this issue,” he added. Spurs splashed $14m (Sh1.4b) to sign Wanyama in July 2016, but a knee problem restricted him to 18 appearances last season and the same injury picked up in preseason hampering his consistency this campaign. He has a contract until 2021. Elsewhere, Liverpool striker Divock Origi, son of former Kenyan international striker Mike Okoth, could be sold to struggling Fulham for a reported $19m (Sh2 billion). The Cottagers are ready to bid for the 23-year-old, who has only made two league appearances this term. Fulham coach Claudio Ranieri is looking to add more firepower to his attack, but could face competition from Wolves, who are also believed to be eyeing the former Lille forward. Meanwhile, Kenyan winger Ayub Timbe’s move to English championship outfit Reading has hit a snag. The 26-year-old, who plies his trade for Chinese side Beijing Renhe, has hinted on a move at the end of the year. “Reading had expressed interest of signing me this month but there were some complications on my contract so hopefully the deal will be done next season,” Timbe told Nation Sport on Monday. “I will remain focused giving 100 percent for my team as I remain open for a return to Europe,” added Timbe, who made a big money move to Asia from Belgian side Lierse in February 2017. And despite Kashiwa Reysol being demoted to the Japanese second tier, Kenya striker Michael Olunga is not plotting a transfer away from the club. “I will get back and do my best for the club to return to the top tier,” Olunga told Nation Sport on Monday. Olunga, who scored three goals in 10 appearances for the club, joined the Kashiwa-based side in August from Chinese side Guanzhou Zhicheng for Sh300 million.  