If you are wondering what age is appropriate for an elderly person to go back to school, just take it from Mzee Simon Muchoki Ndirangu, 62. He has taken the next step in his quest to acquire new skills after a 45-year gap since his last formal schooling. This might sound a perfect happy ending but it is, in fact, a new beginning for “mzae”, as he is fondly referred to by his classmates at Mukurweini Technical Training Institute in Nyeri County. Most of his classmates are the age of his grandchildren. The institution has an unusually high turnover of aged learners. Thanks to an accommodating and supportive management, the Mukurweini Technical Institute has, since its inception three years ago, attracted a growing number of aged learners most of them above 40 years. RELATIONS Mzee Ndirangu, who joined the institution in September this year to pursue a career in electrical engineering – after spending more than four decades as a struggling subsistence farmer – is not alone in this educational journey. Among his college-mates is 57-year-old Cecilia Wanjiru Mwangi and about 30 others, who are out to whet their appetite for an education late in life in a bid to fulfil their long-held dreams. When the Nation visited the institution, Mzee Ndirangu was seated in a class of about 30 students and was conspicuous; his greying hair visible from afar. He was busy undergoing some electrical engineering tutorial, which he has started as an artisan under his instructor Maina Murage, who describes him as respectful, a fast learner and an obedient student. Mzee Ndirangu, a father of five, the eldest being 35 years old, had no reservations about going back to school. "I am the oldest in the group of students studying this programme. There are indeed challenges, like spending five to eight hours each day in a classroom after being out of school for decades. "Nearly all my classmates are in their early 20s. In terms of advice for older students, I would say that you should treat the younger students as your peers. You even find that your tutors are younger but you need to give them just as much respect,” he says with a radiant smile. FEES Mzee Ndirangu, who dropped out of high school in Form Three, says his ultimate goal is to fulfil his dream of acquiring a degree in electrical engineering, which he could not achieve in his youth owing to various hurdles, including lack of school fees. Ms Mwangi joined the institution early this year after sitting her KCSE exam at the neighbouring Gikondi Secondary School at the age of 56 last year; she scored a D-. The mother of three went to the institution seeking to be enrolled but, unfortunately, there was no programme that could fit her grades, according to the Principal, Mr Patrick Muchemi. Touched by her plight, the principal introduced a procurement course, especially for her, and she started studying storekeeping in the hope that she will advance to the next level. HELB She could not afford the tuition fee, forcing Mr Muchemi to negotiate with the Higher Education Loans Board which could not advance her a loan because her age was beyond their eligibility bracket. "Too old for school? Absolutely not! I was anxious about going to school with children more than half my age. I am a dedicated and serious student. "I’m not worried. My classmates are respectful. Most of them call me mum. I am gratified that they have accepted me in their lives,” Ms Mwangi - whose dream of becoming a senior procurement manager has just started - says. But according to Mr Muchemi, there are challenges dealing with overage students. He says older learners need more support to encourage them because of society’s prejudices against them. He says that aside from honing their skills and inspiring the younger generation, studying is an effective way for the over 60s to tackle the spectre of isolation, loneliness and depression, which can come with old age.  