Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko on Friday postponed naming his deputy to allow further consultations with opposition Nasa. Speaking during a press conference in Kilifi County, Mr Sonko explained that the National Super Alliance (Nasa) wrote a letter to him yesterday endorsing their nominee. "I was ready with a nominee but I received a letter from Nasa requesting me to consider their nominee Rahab Wangui for the DG position. Therefore, I shall not be forwarding the name in the spirit of 'handshake' to allow for more consultation," he said. TRUST This now prolongs the wait by residents to have a substantive deputy governor following the resignation of Mr Polycarp Igathe last year. Mr Igathe said he had failed to earn Mr Sonko's trust. "Dear Nairobians, it is with a heavy heart that I resign my seat as elected Deputy Governor of Nairobi City County effective 1pm on Jan 31, 2018. "I regret I have failed to earn the trust of the Governor to enable me to drive Admin and Management of the county. Without fear, favour or ill will I step down to avoid abusing or betraying my oath of office to Kenyans, Nairobians and my family. Thank you for the encouraging support given to me so far," Mr Igathe wrote on his Twitter account. CANDIDATES On Wednesday, the City Hall boss said his pick for deputy governor will be a woman. Additionally, Mr Elkana Jacob, his Director of Communications, said the new pick would not come from the previous list that contained lawyers Karen Nyamu and Jane Weru. They were shortlisted in August last year alongside Bishop Margaret Wanjiru and corporate guru Agnes Kagure. "Yes, I believe he will name a new DG but the name will be a surprise," Mr Jacob said. Last year, lawyer Miguna Miguna’s nomination was rejected by Jubilee Party ward representatives on account that he was not a member of the party. County Assembly Majority Leader Abdi Guy maintained that Mr Miguna's nomination contravened the Political Party’s Act, which requires that both the governor and the deputy must come from the same party.   His deputy Polycarp Igathe resigned and the governor was non-committal on reconciliation.