Tension is high in Kapedo on the border of Baringo and Turkana counties after Tiaty MP William Kamket said the resource-rich region is in his constituency. This did not go down well with Turkana leaders, who said his statement was inflammatory and insensitive, given that the region is experiencing calm after years of bloodshed. In a 45-second video clip that has gone viral, Mr Kamket threatens unspecified action against those who think otherwise. Turkana leaders on Thursday called for stern action against Mr Kamket, saying his claim could derail a planned peace meeting by leaders from Turkana, Baringo and West Pokot to be held at Kapedo. PEACE The leaders — Turkana South MP James Lomenen, his Turkana East counterpart Mohammed Ali Lokiru, Kapedo/Napeitom MCA Willy Nalimo and Thirdway Alliance Kenya party leader Ekuru Aukot — told Mr Kamket to stop misleading the public. “It is archaic and barbaric to undermine the peace that is prevailing between the Turkana and Pokot living in East Pokot, Baringo and West Pokot,” Mr Lomenen said, adding that Mr Kamket had shown himself to be a warmonger. Meanwhile, Mr Lokiru said Mr Kamket's statement is calculated to scuttle the peace process spearheaded by other Pokot and Turkana leaders. "He has sounded the drums of war and we hope the security agents are awake," he added. PROSECUTE Mr Aukot accused security forces of protecting Mr Kamket whenever he makes inflammatory statements. Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa last Thursday came face to face with the thorny boundary issue when two MPs and MCAs from Baringo County clashed at a public meeting in Makutani, on the border of Tiaty and Baringo South sub-counties, which is claimed by both the Pokot and Ilchamus. Trouble started when Mr Kamket protested that a chief from the minority Ilchamus had been chosen the master of ceremonies instead of a Pokot chief. He went on to say the area was in his constituency. Also present were Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis and County Commissioner Henry Wafula.  