On a day he was to issue instructions from the touchline as the interim coach, Kakamega Homeboyz talisman Allan Wanga led from the front bagging a brace in their 4-0 rout of visiting Bandari at Bukhungu Stadium on Wednesday. The victory not only ended Homeboyz’s seven-match winless skid but halted Bandari's unbeaten streak in eight games. The Kakamega-based outfit had their campaign marred with match fixing claims that led to the sacking of Ugandan coach Paul Nkata, his assistant Hamza Kalanzi and suspension of midfielder George Mandela on Tuesday. Wanga and goalkeeper trainer David Juma were put in charge temporarily with technical director Eliud Omukuyia also assisting. Homeboyz's last win in the SportPesa Premier League was the 3-0 thumping of AFC Leopards on December 15 in Kakamega. The win, their third of the season, saw Homeboyz move into 10th place on 12 points from 10 matches ahead of this Saturday’s western derby against Vihiga United at Bukhungu Stadium. “I knew it was going to be a tough game but we talked as a team and agreed to give our all,” Wanga, who has netted four goals this season, told Nation Sport. “All of us just wanted to win the game first, three points were vital to us than everything else that is happening,” added the striker. The club’s technical director Eliud Omukuyia led the team from the dugout before Wanga joined him after paving way for Cameroonian import Maxwell Ravel, who scored the fourth goal as Homeboyz ran riot at home. The former AFC Leopards and Tusker man, who led the brewers to a league and domestic cup double in 2016, told Nation Sport he is not in a rush to hang his boots and pursue coaching despite being trusted with the job at Homeboyz in an interim basis. “I don't even look at myself as a coach but just a leader,” Wanga, who recently graduated from the University of Nairobi, offered. “I am done with my first degree now I want to do another one in sports science then I will see what the future holds regarding coaching.”   "We have written to Homeboyz requesting for more evidence."