Kenya Harlequin finally got one over neighbours Impala Saracens, beating the Sarries 37-24 in their Kenya Cup rugby league duel on Saturday at Impala Sports Club. Bullish Quins stormed into a 27-0 lead at the break but the Sarries would step up, cashing on their numerical advantage after two Quins players were sin-binned in the last 10 minutes.   However, all was in vain for Frank Ndong's charges as Quins proved superior in the Ngong Road derby to triumph and silence the Sarries who dominated the match-up last season. Impala had also ended Quins’ three-year dominance last season with a slim 10-8 in the Kenya Cup. In other Kenya Cup matches on Saturday, leaders Kabras Sugar and defending champions Kenya Commercial Bank eased into comprehensive bonus point victories to continue occupying the top two places in the standings. As expected, 2016 champions Kabras Sugar thumped visiting Mwamba 46-15 at Kakamega showground while KCB crushed 2014 and 2015 champions Nakuru 49-6 at Ruaraka. Also at Impala Sports Club, Nondescripts recovered from their humiliating defeat to Kabras Sugar last weekend to edge out University of Nairobi's Mean Machine 17-3 after leading 5-3 at the break. STRATHMORE HIT HOMEBOYZ Strathmore pulled the biggest upset of the weekend when they stunned Homeboyz 16-14 at the Jamhuri Park showground as Menengai Oilers also shocked hosts Blak Blad 24-13 at Kenyatta University. Kabras Sugar, who are unbeaten in eight matches, upheld their five point lead after improving their tally to 40 points as KCB stayed second in the league. Quins’ bonus point victory also saw them remain third in the log with 31 points. Nondies moved three places up to fourth with 23 points after their victory against Machine. “Our scrum dominated and the backs played exceptionally well with no mistakes in the first half,” said Quins deputy coach Benjamin Ayimba. “There is always pressure in the scrum when defending hence the mistakes that allowed them to score some tries.” Ayimba warned Kabras Sugar that Quins are on the upward trajectory. “This victory was a good impetus,” said Ayimba. Fullback Lyle Asiligwa converted winger William Ambaka and flanker Patrice Agunda’s tries and curled over a penalty to give Quins a 17-0 lead. Then outside centre David Ambunya completed a free-flowing move from the midfield with a pulsating try that Asiligwa converted and added another penalty. That put Quins ahead 27-0 at the drinks. Second row Eric Kerre brought Impala back into the duel with a try on resumption but the Sarries would fumble with a clearance in their 22 metres. Quins left wing Issa Hidriss kicked the ball before chasing to plant between the posts as Asiligwa added the extras to extend their lead to 34-5. Referee Constant Cap handed Impala a penalty try for an infringement with Roxy Suchi being sin-binned. That allowed substitutes Edmond Anya and Davis Makori to land tries but all was in vain.  