When it comes to choosing the type of furniture one will use in their homes, there are a number of options to choose from. Furniture and interior design styles range from contemporary to rustic. Classical furniture has steadily found its way back in many Kenyan homes. According to Mr Firoze Bachu, Director of Furniture Elegance, classical furniture is defined by its curved woods and smooth edges as compared to the geometrical straight lines used in modern furniture. “It is easy to identify classical furniture in a room as the pieces stand out as a result of their ornate carvings and decorations,” notes Mr Bachu. Classical furniture come in different types (subgroups) such as the Victorian, the French Provincial, the Sheraton and the Louis XVI. “Most of the time, these classifications are drawn from the region of origin of the design in question and the associated historical backgrounds of the regions,” states Mr Bachu. The designs associated with classical furniture are very elaborate, a result of the hard work and meticulous attention paid to details while designing this furniture. “There are different processes involved in making of classical furniture. Given that classical furniture is made of solid wood (timber), the wood is first subjected to a high level treatment in specialised kilns that ensures it does not later crack. This treatment is not available in Kenya because it is too expensive so most of the time treated timber is imported.” informs the Furniture Elegance director. HIGHLY DURABLE After the timber has been treated, a specialist in carving goes ahead and makes the different designs before a fabric specialist puts in the finishing. “As a result of the effort that goes into the making of classical furniture, its selling price tends to be higher than that of other types of furniture,” says Mr Bachu, adding that because of the type of wood used in its making, classical furniture is highly durable and it gives value for the money spent. The use of classical furniture in one’s home has several advantages. The strongest advantage associated with this furniture is the unique nature of the designs. “Classical furniture creates a warm atmosphere and an inviting space in the room, as a result of the ornate decoration and the luxurious fabrics used in their creation,” says Mr Bachu. He adds that it is hard to find two people having the same design of furniture pieces in their homes thus making their furnishing stand out. Classical furniture has an element of timeless beauty that will always be in style. “Most of the time, people who use modern furniture in their homes do so because they want to keep up with trends in the market. These trends change after every few years and the homeowner will feel a need to refurnish their home. On the other hand, Classical furniture never goes out of fashion and its pieces remain stunning,” opines Mr Bachu. In the current times, ‘status’ people have different ideas on how to furnish their homes. However, to furnish one’s home with classical furniture one has to be extremely cautious. “There are times where one opts to furnish an entire room of choice with classical furniture. However, given the high costs, most Kenyans are only able to obtain one or two statement pieces and blend them with modern furniture in their homes,” states Mr Bachu. He cautions that to ensure there is no clash of style while furnishing a room with both classical and modern furniture, it is wise to consult an interior design who will advise on how to go about the pieces you intend to incorporate.   Interior decor calls for just the right mix of functionality and beauty.