IN DAR ES SALAAM Bandari goalkeeper Farouk Shikhalo has urged his teammates to give their all in the "match of their lives" against Tanzania's Simba in the SportPesa Cup semi-finals Friday. The two sides will square off in the first semi-final of this annual tournament at the National Stadium starting 2pm, before paving way for the Kariobangi Sharks versus Mbao FC clash at the same venue from 4pm. The Kenyan international goalkeeper managed a clean sheet as Bandari laboured to defeat Singida United 1-0 in their opening match of the tournament, courtesy of a William Wadri penalty in the second half. Simba meanwhile saw-off AFC Leopards 2-1 in the other quarter-final but the Msimbazi street based outfit had to hold their breath overnight after the Kenyan giants filed a protest demanding the hosts be eliminated from the tournament for fielding an 'ineligible' player. The player in question is one Lamine Moro, a Ghanaian international, who featured in that match as a central defender alongside Ivorian Pascal Wawa. Leopards insist he has a running contract with top Zambian side Buildcon. But the tournament organisers ruled otherwise. "The match organising committee would like to respond and inform you that the player named Lamine Moro from Buildcon FC (Zambia) was registered by Simba SC and approved by the Tanzania Football Federation with license No. 002821M94 issued on 15 January as per the SportPesa Cup 2019 Regulations, Section 5.5,” the ruling read in part. STAR-STUDDED ATTACK The ruling has left 22-year-old Shikhalo with the prospect of facing arguably the deadliest attack in the tournament, consisting Simba's Clatous Chama, Emmanuel Okwi, Meddie Kagere and John Bocco. "We will have to play the game of our lives to stand a chance (of beating Simba). We have attributes to win the game including hard work and teamwork, it is not about (the big names) names, this is an eleven versus eleven match," explained Shikhalo. Simba are now considered favourites to triumph not only in this match but the entire tournament, but Okwi has urged for focus. "This is a tricky match because we are up against a side we don't know much about but they know us well. We will have to plan well, study what they are capable of and exercise a bit of caution," said the Ugandan international. At the same time, Mbao coach Ally Bushiri has suggested Sharks will offer his team more problems compared to Gor Mahia. Sharks defeated Yanga 3-2 in their opening match of this competition while Mbao were lucky to scrape through on post match penalties at the expense of holders Gor Mahia.   Nation Sport has established eliminated Gor Mahia left Dar on Thursday morning.