A section of Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) leaders in Kwale County have defended Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho against accusations from two rebel party MPs. Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori and his Malindi counterpart Aisha Jumwa have on several occasions blamed Mr Joho for their woes. The two MPs face expulsion from the party that sponsored them to Parliament for supporting Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid. Ms Jumwa and Mr Dori have alleged that Mr Joho was using his position as deputy party leader to settle political scores and undermine those opposed to his style of leadership. But addressing journalists on Tuesday outside ODM offices in Kwale, former Matuga MP Hassan Mwanyora, who is also the county’s ODM chairperson, dismissed the accusations against Mr Joho, saying Mr Dori and Ms Jumwa should respect the governor. PARTY RULES Mr Mwanyoha said governor Joho has no hand in their tribulations. He said that the decision to expel the two from ODM was arrived at by the party and not by an individual. “We welcome the decision by the (ODM) National Executive Council to expel the two leaders for going against party rules. I don't see why they should declare war against the governor (Joho). When they declared support for Mr Ruto did they ask for permission from Mr Joho, why now blame him?" he posed. He dared the two leaders to resign if they felt aggrieved by the party. Kwale Woman Representative Ms Zuleikha Juma said the two leaders should not blame anyone. BY-ELECTION “ODM has its own rules and regulations. We expected the two MPs to abide by the rules and stand with the party at all times. However, they did the opposite," she lamented. Mr Mwanyoha said they were already scouting for potential candidates in the party to compete with Mr Dori and Ms Jumwa should they lose their seats and be subjected to a by-election. “ODM is still a strong party and the by-election will prove us right. So we will battle and defeat them (Mr Dori and Ms Jumwa) for abandoning the party," he said. During the event, several elected and nominated ODM ward representatives supported the decision by the party to expel the two MPs.   Suleiman Dori says he was elected by the people of Msambweni and not by the party.