Ngando County Assembly ward’s Genesis FC clinched the Dagoretti South Super Cup, sponsored by area Member of Parliament John “KJ” Kiarie, after overcoming Shalom Yassets 3-2 on post-match penalties following a nerve-wrecking 2-2 in normal time in the hotly contested final at Riruta stadium on Tuesday. Genesis walked home with Sh50,000 in prize money as Shallom Yassets picked Sh30,000 for coming second. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, who graced the final, rewarded each team with an extra Sh10,000. Michael Karemera’s first half strike guided Uthiru Vission past Waithaka Sparks to emerge third and walk home with Sh20,000. Soccer Sisters beat Joy Love 2-1 in the only girls category match bagging Sh30,000, while the runners up walked away with Sh20,000. The one week tourney, comprising of 20 teams, was organised in five wards constituting Dagoretti South constituency. Teams battled it out at ward level, where winners collected Sh20,000, runners up Sh10,000, while each participant got Sh5,000. Makadara MP George Aladwa, Extreme Sports CEO Hussein Mohammed and former Gor Mahia winger Innocent Mutiso were also in attendance. “These tournament was meant for teams featuring in county leagues and Extreme Sports’ Super Eight leagues so that it can help them prepare for the new season,” lawmaker Kiarie said. Moses Kuria called on the youth to embrace sports at the expense of betting. “We are pushing for a few regulations on the Sports Fund so that money can trickle down to the grassroots to develop the game,” he offered. In the final, Genesis took a first half lead through Kevin Oben before David Jumange doubled the lead on 51 minutes. Fredrick Onyango reduced the deficit two minutes later to regurgitate the team’s efforts for an equaliser, which eventually came at the death through Brian Odak’s header. During post-match penalties, Genesis converted through Samuel Lemashon, John Koech and Kevin Oben. Dushnell Odhiambo blasted wide his spot kick, while George Odhiambo saw his saved by Yassets custodian Barnabas Ochieng’. Yassets scored through Dennis Apidi and Simon Mureithi. Wycliffe Juma hit the post, Arnold Gathuo was denied by the crossbar, before Fredrick Onyango’s was parried by an outstanding Genesis shot-stopper Noah Barasa.  