A group of Machakos members of county assembly has dismissed a meeting called by Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka terming it 'musical chairs" and saying nothing much will come out of it. The meeting of Wiper leaders, including MCAs, was held on Tuesday at Mr Kalonzo's Yatta home. The media was not invited to cover the discussions that centred on how to tame a simmering rebellion by three Ukambani governors- Makueni's Kivutha Kibwana, Machakos' Alfred Mutua and Kitui's Charity Ngilu. The rebellion by governors, the handshake deal between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga and the upcoming Embakasi South by-election have all stirred Mr Musyoka to action. "DESPERATE" However, seventeen MCAs who did not attend the meeting held a parallel one at Mualice Hotel in Machakos, where they asked Mr Musyoka, principal of the opposition's National Super Alliance, to retire from politics. The MCAs were drawn from Narc, Ford-K, Wiper, Jubilee Party and Maendeleo Chap Chap Party (MCCP). "We have heard of some desperate moves by the Wiper party leadership [in convening] a leaders' meeting in an attempt to revive Hon. Kalonzo's diminishing political career," the ward representatives said in the statement by Minority whip Alex Kamitu (MCCP). "Nothing much will come out of it. We have been through these musical chairs before". NEW LEADERS The leaders said the Kamba community is suffering "because, for example, never before have we had as few national public appointments as we do today" They said the community cannot keep taking the route that leads to disempowerment and poverty. Mr Kamitu noted that the Wiper boss had dominated the political scene since the early 1980s yet has little to show for it, especially when compared with the other leaders in the region. "We need new leaders who have a clear track record and scorecard of working in the interest of the people, not for their personal fame and high positions," he said. FUTURE The MCAs supported the economic, political and development unity spearheaded by the three governors, terming it the solution to the region's problems. "We confirm that the Kamba community is ready for a different political path - away from Kalonzo Musyoka and his Wiper party. While we respect him, we urge him to retire honourably," the MCAs said. They urged the three governors to convene a meeting of leaders to chart the way forward for the community. The MCAs further asked the three county chiefs to engage President Uhuru Kenyatta to ensure the region benefits from national government projects and engages other politicians in the formation of the government come the 2022 general election.   Wiper Party split into two camps, with one group calling for Prof Kivutha Kibwana's expulsion.