Two foreigners have been charged with stripping a Kenyan woman naked and taking nude photos and videos against her will. Mr Zerbin Sascha Marius Waldermar (a German) and Mr Wectabe Shestavetskyi (Ukrainian) on Thursday denied the charges before a Shanzu court. Appearing before Principal Magistrate David Odhiambo, the suspects claimed the woman misreported the incident that took place in Mtwapa, Kilifi County. The charge sheet reads that the suspects intentionally and unlawfully compelled YMN by forcefully undressing her and taking nude videos of her against her will. The prosecution said the suspects committed the offence on January 17, this year at the Kenya Medical Association Apartments in Mtwapa. ONLINE DATING In court documents, the woman said she met Mr Marius on an online dating site earlier this year where they chatted and planned to meet. On the material day, the complainant said she traced her ‘new catch’ through google map. They met in Mtwapa before proceeding to the apartment where the man lived. The two spent the better part of the day at a swimming pool located within the compound. “We spent the whole day swimming. In the evening, we proceeded to the apartment, they brought alcoholic drinks and food,” she said in her report to the police. The complainant said that when she informed the suspects of her intention to leave, they declined and demanded sex saying that they had spent too much money on her. “You cannot leave just like that when you have eaten our food and drinks,” the suspects are said to have told the woman. UNDRESSED HER The woman said the suspects forcefully undressed her and threw her clothes outside the apartment. She said that as Mr Marius struggled to wrestle her down, Mr Shestavetskyi took nude photos and videos of her. She, however, managed to overpower the suspects, grabbed her mobile phone and alerted the police. The police said they would press more charges including promoting pornography, against the suspects. WITHDRAW CASE The suspects unsuccessfully attempted to withdraw the case after the court said that they could not do so in the absence of the complainant. The suspects had gone to court with a letter, allegedly from the complainant, purporting that she was willing to withdraw the case. They also produced a copy of her identification card. The court ruled that the origin of the letter and its authenticity could not be proved, considering that the complainant, who feared for her life, had fled to her home town. The suspects were granted Sh100,000 cash bail. The case will be mentioned tomorrow.  