The next 12 months, at the movies, will bring the usual assortment of noisy amusements, among them superheroes (Avengers: Endgame, Captain Marvel), super creeps (sequels to It and Godzilla) and Star Wars: Episode IX. What I'm really looking forward to in the first five months of 2019, though, are the movies that tell stories in unique ways, like the 10 hopefuls listed here of what lies ahead: January: Glass - After spending a decade or so guessing wrong on what studios and audiences wanted, M. Night Shyamalan seems to have regained his commercial instincts, both in expanding the narrative of his sombre, compelling 2000 proto-superhero movie and in delivering what would seem to be a treatise on the genre and its discontents in a moment when it’s peaking. February: Alita: Battle Angel- It’s partially written and backed by James Cameron and directed by Robert Rodriguez, which makes it both exciting and gives pause. March: Captain Marvel – People have been waiting for Captain Marvel longer than almost any other Marvel film. Not because its protagonist is a bigger deal than, say, Thor or Black Panther but because it’s the first stand-alone Marvel movie to feature a female superhero. This month there will also be Lupita Nyong’o’s Us, her haunting movie about a family that goes away for a beach vacation and finds themselves haunted by creepy lookalikes of themselves determined to kill them, gruesomely. April: Hellboy, Shazam!, and Avengers: Endgame all will be coming out in April and they promise to be a treat. Based on Shazam!, trailer, this quirky superhero flick seems to have a lot going for it, mostly thanks to the comedic chops of Zachary Levi, who is playing the titular role. David Harbour as Hellboy is a delight as Jim Hopper on Stranger Things, and he’ll hopefully bring that energy to Mike Mignola’s twisted antihero. May: John Wick: Chapter 3, Aladdin and Godzilla: King of the Monsters. The live-action remake of the 1992 Disney film Aladdin features as its villain the rather attractive actor Marwan Kenzari, and the online world has welcomed him with open memes. This new Godzilla movie, features not only Godzilla but also Mothra, Rodan, and Ghidorah. It also has Stranger Things’ Millie Bobby Brown and Silicon Valley’s Thomas Middleditch. *** From Coast comes ‘PETE’ a one-of-a-kind Swahili telenovelaMaisha Magic East on Monday premiered another local production from the Coast to add to their growing portfolio of local productions. “Pete”, a new Swahili soap opera, depicts hate, enmity and revenge that threaten to destroy a brotherhood’s bond, out of the desire to get leadership and control. The show will be airing from Monday to Friday at 9:30pm. To celebrate the launch of the new soap opera, Maisha Magic East organised a special screening of Pete’s first episode at the Kenyatta Public Beach on Sunday, January 6, to give coastal viewers a taste of what to expect when the show premiered on the channel the following day. “Pete” is a drama series that follows the fight between two brothers, Mbura (older brother) and Jasiri (younger brother), to attain the right to rule Funzi Island after the demise of their father Dalu. At the centre of this fight is the leadership tool, the ring (pete). Also keen on getting their hands on the ring are the mermaids, who send their beautiful daughter, Safira, to fetch the ring that threatens to end the mermaid generation if they don’t claim it from the human race.   Speaking at the first-ever outdoor beach series-premiere screening at the Coast, GOtv Kenya General Manager Simon Kariithi reiterated the commitment by MultiChoice Kenya to offer memorable, quality and affordable entertainment. “We understand our customers’ changing demands and we are committed to offer them the kind of entertainment they want.” Speaking at the same event, MNET Channel Director, East and Southern channels, Timothy Okwaro reiterated the company’s priority to deliver 100 per cent local content to its consumers. “We are committed to the delivery of this promise to our subscribers by providing our customers with unique viewing experiences as the industry video entertainment leaders,” he said. Over the course of 2017 and 2018, Maisha Magic East has launched premium local content to the delight of its viewers. Some of these include the award-winning show “Selina” that won the Best TV Drama series award at Kalasha 2018 Awards, “Maza”, yet another Swahili soap opera produced in the coastal region, “Sue na Johnnie” amongst others. Pete is a Swahili word meaning finger ring and in this case it denotes a circular or endless situation. This ring plays out metaphorically as a beacon of ultimate competition, love and hatred. According to the producer of the show, Daudi Otieno, “Pete” is one of his biggest projects that he is so passionate about. “The story is close to me, especially having been raised at the Coast and experienced its rich culture, which plays a major role in this telenovela drama series.”   The film doesn’t deliver beyond ticking the boxes.