AFC Leopards and Kakamega Homeboyz are involved in a tussle over the services of defender Moses Chikati, a day after the closure of the primary registration window of the 2018/19 SportPesa Premier League (SPL) campaign. Chikati has been listed on the rosters of both clubs for this transitional season with Homeboyz claiming to have renewed his contract while Leopards have listed him among eight of their new signings. According to Leopards secretary general Oscar Igaida, the player signed a pre-contract with them in November and received his sign-on fees believed to be around Sh200,000. “His contract with Homeboyz was to elapse on December 31 thus he was to report to AFC Leopards on January 1,” Igaida told Nation Sport. “We already submitted his documents for registration at the federation. The case is now at the hands of the player status committee to decide,” added Igaida who demanded refund of the sign-on fee. Chikati has featured in all Homeboyz's matches this season. Homeboyz patron Cleophas Shimanyula accused Leopards officials of player tapping. “How can they sign a player on contract?” posed Shimanyula. “Chikati is on contract with us until 2022, Leopards officials just gave him a Christmas gift claiming to be his sign-on fees since he is a top player.” The former Chemelil Sugar player however said he is happy donning Homeboyz shirt after extending his stay at the club. “Leopards convinced me to sign after telling me that they had already negotiated with my chairman (Shimanyula) but when I came back to Kakamega, the chairman told me no talks had been initiated that’s why I renewed my contract,” confessed Chikati. “I am ready to refund their money to stay at Homeboyz,” underlined Chikati. A source at Football Kenya Federation (FKF) said the two clubs have been advised to settle the matter amicably before it reaches the player status committee. Meanwhile, Mathare United signed Ugandan goalkeeper Allan Owiny on deadline day becoming their first foreign acquisition in four years.  