Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association beat favourites Athletics Kenya to reclaim the Sports Federation of the Year Award after 12 years of waiting in the 2018 Sports Personality of the Year Awards (Soya). KSSSA last won the award in 2007, having been playing second fiddle to Athletics Kenya, Kenya Volleyball Federation and Tennis Kenya who have been exchanging the award between themselves. At the awards held on Friday night at Fort Jesus in Mombasa, Kwale Girls Secondary School from the Coast scooped a treble, winning the School Team of the Year Award, School Coach of the Year Award and Most Promising Player (girl) Award at the gala nigh attended by, among others, Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa, Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho, Kenya Ports Authority Managing Director Daniel Manduku and Sports Academy Director Gordon Oluoch. KSSSA officials, led by chairman Peter Orero, secretary David Ngugi, treasurer Gikonyo Kariuki and Juma Bora could not hide their joy after winning the awards. “Almost all the stars in Kenya today must have gone through a school system at one level. We are happy to have achieved this through the ministry of education who have suppoted us all throughout,” Ngugi, flanked by Orero and Bora, said in Mombasa on Friday night. He paid special tribute to Soya founder Paul Tergat saying his vision, which is not common in other countries has helped a great deal in encouraging federations and the youth to do well. KSSSA has dominated the East Africa Secondary Schools Games since its inception in 2002, missing the overall title only once when the games were held in Dar es Salaam in 2014. This year, Athletics Kenya finished second, while Football Kenya Federation finished third. Kwale Girls have followed in the footsteps of Kaya Tiwi who won the the School Team of the Year Award a record four times, and Kaya Tiwi Secondary who won it in 2006. Kwale Girls won the national and the East Africa Secondary Schools title on their debut when the games were held in Musanze, Rwanda, last year. National and East Africa secondary schools girls’ hockey champions Trans Nzioa Mixed girls’ hockey team finished second while national and regional volleyball champions Kwanthanze were third.  