Champions Gor Mahia will be out to start the year with victory against Chemelil Sugar when the two face off in the SportPesa Premier League Wednesday afternoon at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos. Gor, who fell 1-0 to Kariobangi Sharks on Saturday, find themselves sitting 13th on the table of standings with three points from as many games in what is one of the worst start to a season for the team. On Saturday, Gor coach Hassan Oktay vented his frustration at the team’s failure to utilise scoring opportunities and called on his charges to adjust to the demands of playing continental and domestic matches. Gor Mahia are due to host Cameroonian team New Stars in a first leg match of the 2019 Caf Confederation Cup play-off on January 11. But Gor captain Harun Shakava insists the team has put behind Saturday’s 1-0 loss to Kariobangi Sharks and will be looking forward to a good result in Machakos. “New year comes with new resolutions, we might have started the season badly but that was last year. We now want to approach our remaining matches this year with a winning mentality, starting with today’s match against Chemelil Sugar,” Shakava underscored. Chemelil Sugar themselves have managed just two wins in 20 matches against K’Ogalo, with three ending in a draw. Chemelil coach Francis Baraza heads to this game without his dependable strikers Francis Ocholla and Justin Monda who are nursing injuries. “It will be tough but we will give it our best,” Baraza, whose charges thumped troubled Mount Kenya United 2-0 in their last match, said. “We respect Gor despite the bad run, they are the champions and I doubt they will want to lose another game,” he added. At Kasarani Stadium, a win for leaders Mathare United against struggling Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) will extend the Slum Boys’ lead to 13 points in the league, but that is if Western Stima fail to collect maximum points in Kisumu when they host 2009 champions Sofapaka. The bankers are winless in this campaign as pressure continues to mount on coach Frank Ouna and his new look technical bench. In Nakuru, John Kamau makes a return as Posta Rangers head coach, seeking to halt the team’s skid this term against AFC Leopards. Kamau has replaced Sammy “Pamzo” Omollo whose contract expired last month. He will be assisted by former Kenyan internationals Pascal Ochieng and Edward Kauka. FIXTURES (All kick-offs 3pm unless stated otherwise) Mt Kenya Utd v Kariobangi Sharks (Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos, 1.30pm) Gor Mahia v Chemelil Sugar (Kenyatta stadium, Machakos, 4pm) Posta Rangers v AFC Leopards (Afraha Stadium) Mathare v KCB (Kasarani) Western Stima v Sofapaka (Moi Stadium, Kisumu) Tusker v Vihiga United (Ruaraka grounds) Nzoia Sugar v Ulinzi Stars (Sudi stadium, Bungoma) Zoo Kericho v Bandari (Kericho Green Stadium) Sony Sugar v Kakamega Homeboyz (Awendo Green Stadium)  