Maringo-based Cinema Saturday beat Githurai United by a solitary goal to lift the 40th edition of SportPesa-sponsored annual Kothbiro offseason football tournament during the final at a packed Umeme grounds in Ziwani estate, Nairobi. Steve Opuku pounced on the rebound to smash home the all-important goal on 19 minutes after Githurai goalkeeper Boniface Maundu had parried back into play. Champions Cinema pocketed Sh300,000 in prize money while second-placed Githurai walked home with Sh100,000. Bundes, who came third after beating Kingston 2-0 on penalties following a 1-1 draw in normal time in the third-place playoff on Friday, collected Sh75,000 while Kingston got Sh50,000 courtesy of sponsors SportPesa. The Most Valuable Player Ali Abubakar (Bundes FC), best goalkeeper Victor Khatili (Bundes FC) and top scorer Reddie Eninga (Shauri Moyo), were handed Sh10,000 each. The best goalkeeper also bagged two pairs of gloves courtesy of former Kenyan international custodian Arnold Origi. Githurai, inspired by Harambee Stars wingback Erick “Marcelo” Ouma who plays for Swedish third tier side Vasalund and Georgia-based Amos Nondi, hustled and bustled to get an equalizer that would’ve sent the match direct to post-match penalties but their efforts were thwarted by a vigilant Cinema backline. “We are delighted clinching our first trophy in this famous tournament, we hope to defend the cup in the next edition,” Cinema captain Wayne Odhiambo said after the clash attended by SportPesa Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Ronald Karauri, Football Kenya Federation (FKF) officials among others. Githurai skipper Fredrick Kimondo was pleased with their efforts despite losing in the final. “Team work and unity helped us reach this far, this was our first time in the final and we must be grateful despite the setback,” Kimondo stated. Cinema eliminated Bundes FC 4-3 on post-match penalties in the semis after a goalless draw in regular time to reach the finals. Githurai, on the other hand, saw off a hard-fighting Kingston 1-0 in the other semi-final. The transitional season in the Kenyan football circles has forced the Kothbiro organizers to shift their calendar from the traditional December season to June/July henceforth. This means this year’s edition will be staged in June/July with the Under-19 Kothbiro Junior competition being played in December.  