Home pro Greg Snow leads the surviving field of 27 players to today’s third round of the fifth leg of 2018/2019 Safari Tour at the par-71 Muthaiga Golf Club course.Snow on Monday fired one under 70 for a two-round total of five under 137, to keep a two-shot lead from Windsor’s David Opati. It was however a slow start for the Muthaiga player who started the day with two back-to-back bogeys at the first and second holes, followed by another bogey at the sixth, although he managed to recover two shots at the seventh and eighth. It was at the back nine where Snow took charge of things after firing birdies on the 10th, 11th, 17th and at the home green, with only one bogey coming at the 16th for a low 32. Opati on the other hand produced a brilliant five under par 66 for a total of three under par 139. Opati, who will be in the same flight with the leader Snow in today’s third round, dropped shots on the fifth and sixth holes, having birdied the third and fourth. Like Snow, Opati played the back nine well, firing in three birdies at the 15th, 17th and 18th in addition to his eagle three at the 10th for an impressive 30. Nyanza’s David Odhiambo meanwhile dropped to third after a 73 for 142. The 27 players who made cut of the field of 51 players include four amateurs Akshay Chandaria of Windsor, Muthaiga’s Mutahi Kibugu and Zubair Khan and Vet Lab’s Edwin Mudanyi. The third round gets under way from 8am.Meanwhile, junior golfer Alyssa Jamal extended her current top form to the Lady Captain’s Prize golf tournament at Nyali Golf and Country Club at the weekend.The 12-year-old Jamal carded a differential of 17 points to take the overall title, beating Mary Kandu by two points as Kandu settled for the runners-up prize. Finishing third in the event where over 25 prizes were on offer, was former club chairlady Christine Ockotch with a differential of 21 points. Taking the overall third prize after a three-way countback was Suhas Gudka on 22 after beating Saida Samji and Ann-Marie De Jong on countback. Nila Devani and Pauline Gachara won the first and second nine on 36.5 and 20 points while Lyn Nicholls was the senior winner with 24 points was Mary Wamboi was the best Coast lady captain with a score of 29 points. In the lady guests category, Machakos Golf Club’s Susan Ndolo won with 17 points, ahead of Margaret Thande on 23 and third placed B.Jones with 26 points. In the men’s category, George Choge carded 50 points to win ahead of Nathan Ngweno on 43 while Hitendra Halai beat Dhanji Pindolia on countback with 42 points to finsh third.Among male guests, Manfred Duennet posted 41 points to take the first prize ahead of P.Kinyanjui on 35. The nines went to Martin Wahome on 23 and Joseph Oluoch also on 23 points, with Clive Barnsley clinching the seniors prize on 41 points. The junior title went to Zayan Din on 39 followed in second place by Aly Is-Haq on 37.Kenya Amateur Match Play champion Daniel Nduva won men’s longest drive contest, while Wambui Warui claimed the ladies title. The nearest to pin for men went to Zaheed Dewji while Mary Kandu was the lady winner.At Muthaiga Golf Club, the team of local pro Jeff Kubwa and amateurs Hetul Chandaria, Ian Vanderven and junior golfer Sanjana Sharma produced the winning score of 82 with Kubwa himself firing two under par, to claim the Safari Tour Pro-Am and his partners posting 48 points. Kubwa won a cash prize of Sh30,000. They won ahead of Sigona pro Sujan Shah’s team of Alex Gitari, Edmond Kabera and Jacob Njeru on 77 after beating the team of pro David Wakhu and amateurs Patrick Nderitu, Amon Ngechu and Simon Ndirangu. In the subsidiary event, handicap 21 Christine Ochola of Muthaiga emerged overall winner with 42 points ahead of men winner Raj Shah on 38 points. Britam Holdings Group Managing Director, Dr. Benson Wairegi was second in the men category on 37 points after beating Kumar Dhall on countbackub. In the Ladies category, the legendary Florence Maina carded 37 points to win by a point from Mary Maingi with Ling Bai on 35 taking the third prize. James Ngalawa and Michael Itote won the nines with 20 and 21 points. At Ruiru Sports Club during the ICEA Lion Group tournament, handicap 19 Peter Njiru combined 21 and 19 for 40 points to beat men winner George Wachira on countback. Prudential Gaitara was second in the men’s section with 39 points, two better than Samuel Otieno. The ladies Ruth G Kamau won with 40 points followed in second place by Shobna Patel on 37 after a countback with Stella Nyokabi. Emerging the overall winner in the guests category was Sammy Mose playing off handicap 19 with 37 points and the lady guest winner was Millie Nyaga on 33. Ben Omondi won the gross on 80, and Romould Miana was the Detour winner.The nines went to Gabriel Muthwale and Benard Kungu on 21 and 22 points. Emmanuel Lelgo and Millicent Nduati won the longest drive contest, with J. Maalu and Catherine Wambui winning the nearest to pin prizes.At Sigona, H. Pindolia won the January Monthly Mug with 38 points, beating Ronak Malde and Ketul Tanna on countback. The nines went to K. Hirji and Kurdip Devgun on 21 and 19 points.Ends  