IN DAR ES SALAAM Kariobangi Sharks Friday booked a place in the final of the SportPesa Cup after beating Mbao FC 6-5 on post match penalties in the second semi-final at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Both sides settled for a barren draw in regulation time forcing the tie to be decided through the lottery where Mbao's Hamimu Abdulkarim and Amos Charles crashed their penalties on the crossbar to hand Sharks the win. Said Khamis, Patrick Athanas, Vincent Phillipo, David Mwaka and Eric Muliro successfully converted for Mbao. Sharks recovered from the opening penalty miss by Patillah Omotto to score through Tom Teka, Sven Yidah, Geoffrey Shiveka, Nixon Omondi, Eric Juma and Michael Bodo. William Muluya's charges will now meet debutants Bandari in an all-Kenyan final after the Dockers upset Simba 2-1 earlier at the same venue. The winning team will face English Premier League side Everton in Nairobi later this year. "It was the toughest match we have played in this tournament coming against a team which is very comfortable on the ball and have players who can run. I thank God we held our nerve," said Muluya. Mbao coach Ally Bushiri took pride in bowing out through penalties after his boys put up a spirited fight. "We tried our best but couldn't make it. I congratulate my boys because they have made Tanzania proud. We have not lost in any game in this tournament," said Mbao coach Ally Bushiri The opening half was evenly poised, with the Kenyan team appearing fatigued perhaps after its winning exploits against Yanga in the quarter-finals played on Tuesday. That said, twice, Herbert Lukindo attempted to force through an opening goal for the hosts. In the eighth minute, his first time shot was deflected for a corner by Thomas Teka. Ten minutes later, the giant forward slipped when he was just about to pull the trigger in a prime goal-scoring position. Then came Sharks turn to attack via the enterprising Harrison Mwendwa, who played a neat interchange with Duke Abuya but his shot failed to beat the assured Mnata Metacha who was guarding Mbao's goal. Next, George Abege was set clean through on goal by Abuya but he could only produce a scuffed left footed shot.   Substitute Wilberforce Lugogo came off the bench to score the winner in the 72nd minute.