Mombasa residents have called on the county government to shut down the fast growing dumpsite in Bombolulu along Mombasa-Malindi highway, fearing that exposure to polluted air is a health hazard. As the reclamation of Kibarani dumpsite goes on, it is the turn of residents of VOK to feel the effects of smoke, filthy air, insects and birds. The illegal dumpsite is located in Bombolulu, a popular area with many Mombasa residents. It borders a wide area including Nyali estate. Every day, trucks filled with litter of all types deposit it in the area. FOUL STENCH The fast growing dumpsite has now made the area to be filled with a foul stench, a thick cloud of smoke from burning of chemicals, plastic, cotton and paper. The garbage dumped in the residential area is collected from various parts of the county. Residents also have endured illnesses which, according to doctors, are as a result of the garbage dumped next to their homes. Mr Charles Okwaro, a resident of Kisimani, said his one-year-old son was admitted to the Coast General Hospital as a result of the effects of the dirt from the dumpsite. ILL “He experienced severe diarrhoea, vomiting and frequent stomach ache. When I took him to hospital, the doctor said it was because of consuming the dirt that surrounds us in our homes. There is a lot of smoke and dirt at the dumpsite just neighbouring us,” said Mr Okwaro. He said that his neighbour’s children have also experienced the same problems for a long time now. “This is dangerous because we as parents do not know what the children consume when they are out playing,” he said. PESTS Mr Shah Pars, who lives on Beach Road, says there are many pests around his home which cause him and his neighbours a lot of discomfort. “There are so many flies in my house coming from the dumpsite. I know many other people are affected by this. The county should consider relocating it,” said Mr Shah. Residents are hoping that the county government will hear their pleas and relocate or shut down the dumpsite completely. Last year, the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority rejected the relocation of the dumpsite to Mwakirunge saying the area is on a flight path.  