The war of words between former Nairobi County Education executive Janet Ouko and Governor Mike Sonko after their acrimonious falling-out early this month may be headed to court. This comes after Ms Ouko gave Mr Sonko seven days to apologise over an alleged defamatory statement the governor made against her failure to which she said she will seek legal redress. Through her lawyer Dan Ameyo, Ms Ouko has written to the City Hall boss demanding an apology. WRITTEN APOLOGY "Take notice that unless we receive the written apology within the next seven days from the date hereof, our instructions are to file suit against you without further reference to you and at your own risk as to costs and consequences arising therefrom," read the letter dated January 21, 2019. The former county executive resigned from her position on January 7 in a huff citing the need to pursue other interests but later revealed that the leadership style of her former boss, controlling nature and lack of respect for county staff made her quit her job. Mr Sonko hit back at Ms Ouko alleging that she resigned after being implicated in a financial scandal involving the county's bursary fund. The letter by Mr Amayo said that the allegations by the governor insinuated that his client was involved in the loss of the bursary money creating a perception that she was a thief. LOST MONEY The letter states that on January 9, while addressing journalists in Kilifi County, Governor Sonko allegedly said that Ms Ouko "as the head of the docket, the county government lost Sh357 million for which she is to be held to account. We wrote cheques to schools but the same cheques were secretly brought back, cancelled and fresh ones written with their cronies’ names". It is this statement that the advocate said has caused anguish, mental torture and psychologically affected his client, adding that it has portrayed Ms Ouko as corrupt, a thief and a person who is not worth to hold any public office in the country and anywhere in the world. "Your said words literally meant that our client, to whom you were referring, was involved in the loss of the said money. This message has attracted social media attention with people calling our client a thief," stated the letter. The letter continue to state that the statement by Mr Sonko has affected Ms Ouko's reputation and standing in the society, which took long to build, and put her to ridicule before the society. "Arising from your statement, our client is being shunned by her friends, family and public. Our client has, therefore, suffered loss and damage for which we hold you and your office personally liable," continued the letter.   Janet Muthoni-Ouko says she will pursue other interests.