Transport has been paralysed in Kirinyaga County after matatu drivers went on strike demanding that Toyota Probox cars be stopped from doing public transport business. The matatu drivers are accusing traffic police of allowing the cars to carry passengers. Due to the strike, passengers were Monday stranded at various bus stages in the region with those travelling shorter distances opting to walk. "The situation is really bad because there are no matatus to take us to our destinations," said one of the stranded passengers. Passengers pleaded with the protesters to call off the strike and enter into dialogue in order to end the transport crisis. TENSION There was tension at the Kerugoya and Kutus bus stages as riot police in full combat gear patrolled the areas. The drivers who boycotted work for the better part of the morning said that the Probox cars have not complied with public transport regulations are giving them unfair competition. "The operators of Probox cars are carrying passengers in the region with the full knowledge of traffic officers. Our pleas to have these vehicles stopped from operating as passengers service vehicles have fallen on deaf years," said the Kukena Sacco chairman David Muriithi. MATIANG'I The matatu drivers vowed to continue with the strike until the Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i intervenes. "Dr Matiang'i ordered that all Probox vehicles be phased out of the roads but the officers are not enforcing the order. It is likely such officers have been compromised by the Probox operators and they must be investigated and disciplinary action taken against them," Mr Muriithi added. Deputy County Commissioner Daniel Ndege arrived called for calm. Mr Ndege told the protesters that he is aware of their grievances and promised to address them. "No vehicle which is not authorised to carry passengers should operate in the region. I will ensure that a major crackdown is carried out with a view to impound all the Probox cars whose owners are breaking the traffic law," he told the protesters. Mr Ndege assured the protesters that Dr Matiang'I’s order is still in force and warned that those flouting it will face the full force of the law.  