Q. I went for an interview and the HR Manager told me that they were looking to pick just one candidate on the spot. I wasn’t the lucky one. After a fortnight, he called and asked me to report the following week. I learnt that their first choice had turned down the offer. Should I take up the job when I know they only settled on me because they were unable to get the person they wanted?  It is common practice for employers to opt for the second or third candidate when the first choice does not take up the offer due to various reasons. In making the decision on who to offer the role after interviewing several candidates, there are many factors that are considered. The preferred candidate might have a longer notice period, and therefore is unavailable to take the job within the timelines of the employer. In such a case, the employer will consider the second best candidate if he or she is available to take the position immediately. That said, you will always find people who are more experienced and skilled than others. In any form of race, which also includes interviews, there is always a winner. Coming second does not mean you are incompetent, it means that the skills and experience required for that particular role matched more closely to that of the first candidate. Having attended the interview means that you would like to be associated with the company, however, it is important to understand the role that you are being offered, and the expectation before you accept the offer. It is also prudent to find out why their first choice declined the offer. You may not get a straight response from the recruiter to this question, but since you are interested in the job, take up the role and do an assessment during the probation period. You should have a positive outlook to life, this employer would not give you an offer if you were not qualified for the role. They had one role to fill and several interested candidates. With this in mind, don’t sell yourself short to get the job, most employers are very willing to negotiate for a good package when they are desperate to hire unlike when you are already on-board, therefore, take advantage of this situation and negotiate the best deal for yourself. Don’t take too long to decide on the offer because they could approach the third candidate for the job just like they approached you.   Your friendship with colleagues should not grant them unfair favours from you.