Kenyans will still have to dig deep into their pockets for services in private hospitals unless the cost of providing healthcare is reviewed in totality. This is according to a presser by the Kenya Medical Association (KMA) on Saturday stating that it is willing to enter into a broad-based discussion on total healthcare costs not limited to private practitioners' professional fees. “There is a clear structure for this process and we should not mix two issues. There is a misconception that professional fees in the private sector are raising the cost for Universal Health Coverage which is a programme in public and not private facilities,” said Dr Jacqueline Kitulu, the KMA president. The association challenged the government to clarify the relationship between UHC and private practice healthcare providers. 'CHEAPER RATES' She said KMA is completely in agreement with the roll-out of UHC, which should concentrate on building the structures in public facilities. Dr Kitulu was reacting to an earlier directive by Parliament that the country reverts to the 2006 pricing guidelines that were abandoned two years ago with the adoption of the current rates. The National Assembly’s Health committee in a report dated November 15, 2018, instructed Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki to immediately replace the existing Medical Practitioners and Dentists Rules 2016 with the second edition of the Professional Fees Rules and Guidelines of 2006, which prescribes cheaper rates for various medical services and procedures. The committee chaired by Murang’a Woman Rep Sabina Chege also gave the Health ministry, Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board and the Pharmacy and Poisons Board six months to come up with a reasonable cost for various treatment regimens. “The ministry, KMPDB and Pharmacy and Poisons Board must review within six months, reasonable Professional Fees Rules and Guidelines, Regulations on cost of service of medical services and drugs in general, costing of healthcare, with a view of ensuring that all fees are in tandem with the UHC (Universal Health Coverage) agenda. This should be done with proper consultations and public participation,” the committee said. 'RUSHED PROCESS' Dr Kitulu said that there is a process for reviewing the charges and not hurriedly the way it is being done. “We consider the ongoing process of reviewing the doctor’s private practice professional fees to be rushed and with inadequate input from the professionals,” said the KMA president. “When you are reviewing the cost of healthcare in the private sector, you need to look at the whole structure. The total cost of providing healthcare. There are equipment, hospital charges and laboratory. “One needs to consider the whole picture and not touching bits and pieces. We have scanned several hospital bills and the professional fees which the lawmakers are claiming are exorbitant were just 12 per cent of the whole bill,” noted the medic. Dr Kitulu said KMA was willing to have a conversation that would look at everything and review the cost of healthcare, which is more sustainable, and not confusing Kenyans that the fees are high. She said lawmakers should consider looking at where the high cost is coming from since there are several factors involved. The KMA boss challenged the MPs to focus their attention on ensuring that the public system is working and not diverting attention to professional fees in private facilities. Dr Kitulu said the association would not attend a meeting by Consumers Federation of Kenya (Cofek) on January 8. Cofek has called for a public consultation meeting to discuss the rates. “We know what this meeting is all about and it is geared towards one direction. We advise all our members to stay away from this meeting,” said Dr Kitulu.   NHIF pays Sh5,000 and Sh9,500 for dialysis in public and private hospitals respectively.