wo police officers accused of assisting a robbery with violence suspect to escape from cells hours before his sentencing have been charged in a Nakuru court. Mr Peter Angura and Ms Sharon Kipchumba, who appeared Friday before Resident Magistrate Faith Munyi, were charged with aiding Samson Khamari to escape from the cells at the Nakuru Central Police Station. The two, who were in charge of the station on January 2, 2019, are accused of aiding Khamari, who is a suspect in a robbery with violence incident that led to the death of Mr Martin Mathea, to escape. PLEADED GUILTY Before his mysterious disappearance, Khamari was due for sentencing on the same day in a Nakuru magistrate’s court after he pleaded guilty to charges of robbery with violence at Ngala within Nakuru town. According to the prosecution, Khamari robbed Mr Mathea of his property at his house on the night of November 6, 2018. He is said to have strangled Mr Mathea before making away with valuables including electronics, mobile phones and other household goods worth hundreds of thousands shillings. The case took a new twist after it emerged that he had fled from the Nakuru Central Police Station that morning. The news of his disappearance came as shock to the family of Mr Mathea who had hoped that justice would finally be served for their slain kin. Family members who arrived at the court earlier in the morning for the judgement were left stranded after they were informed that the suspect had fled. PHONE CALL The victim’s father, Mr Vincent Mathea, said the police officer investigating the matter called him and informed him that the suspect had disappeared. According to him, the police told him that the Khamari could have left the station in the morning as he was being taken to court. His sister, Joyce Wanjiku Kiumbuku, expressed her disappointment and wondered how a suspect could escape from the highly guarded police station. “We still do not understand how a suspect can escape from the police station on such a day when he is supposed to face his punishment,” said Ms Wanjiku. The two officers denied the charges and were freed on Sh50,000 bond each or an alternative cash bail of Sh25,000. The case will be mentioned on January 10, 2019.  