Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has announced changes in his ministry’s national government administration office that has seen a number of regional and county commissioners promoted and others moved to serve in different parts of the country. The changes, which he said aim at enhancing service delivery, also affects top secretaries at the ministry, a majority of whom have no idea what the future holds for them after their names were left out even as the CS noted the importance of strengthening and enhancing the ministry leadership teams both at the headquarters and in the field. SECURITY Among those affected in the changes the CS made Wednesday afternoon include secretary for internal security Mr Amos Gathecha and his national administration counterpart Mr Arthur Osiya. They were not deployed but their positions have been taken up. Mr Wycliffe Ogallo, the former Eastern Regional Commissioner has been promoted and deployed to the ministry headquarters as secretary national administration same to Mr Moffat Kangi, who until his appointment as secretary internal security, was the Nyanza regional commissioner. The changes also saw Amb Mohamed Saleh, the former North Eastern regional commissioner, moved from director of reforms to Secretary Liaison. Dr Matiang’i also named Nairobi Regional Commissioner Mr William Kangethe the Principal Administrative Secretary while Mr Peter Thuku is the new secretary peace building and conflict management and disaster response. “As we start the New Year 2019, it has been decided that the following deployments of national government administration officials take place in the regions and in the counties with immediate effect,” said Dr Matiang’i. COMMISSIONERS The other regional commissioners who were moved include Mr Wilfred Nyagwanga who will replace Mr Wilson Njenga in Central, James Kianda will replace Mr Moffat Kangi in Nyanza while Wilson Njenga moves from Central to replace Mr William Thuku. Mr John Elungata heads to Coast to replace Mr Bernard Leparmarai, whose fate is not clear while Mr Isaiah Nakoru will replace Mr Ogallo in Eastern region. However, Mr Mongo Chimwaga, Mr Mohamed Birik and Ms Anne Ngetich were not affected in the reshuffle and will retain their Rift Valley, North Eastern and Western regions respectively. The CS also shuffled the county commissioners that saw Ms Flora Mworoa appointed in Nairobi and Mr Abdullahi Hiddi heading to Embu from Machakos among others. Mr Hiddi was appointed to serve in Machakos after President Uhuru Kenyatta named Ms Matilda Sakwa the National Youth Service (NYS) Director General last year to replace Mr Richard Ndubai, who has been charged in court over theft of public funds.  