President Uhuru Kenyatta has eulogised Professor Abel Gitau Mugenda, husband of former Kenyatta University Vice-Chancellor, as a distinguished scholar who made significant contributions to education. Prof Mugenda died on Saturday after a short illness, according to a statement released on Sunday afternoon by the Presidential Strategic Communication Unit (PSCU). TRUE PATRIOT In the statement, President Kenyatta noted the professor was also a researcher whose work has had great bearing on education and training in Kenya. He also pointed out that Mr Mugenda authored and published several books and research, which will help grow the education sector for years to come. “He was one of Kenya's academic and research giants, who will be remembered for many years to come for his outstanding work,” said the president. The president cited one of Prof Mugenda's books titled Social Science Research: Theory and Principles, which he described as a valuable guide to research in Africa and the developing world. Mr Kenyatta also described Prof Mugenda as a true patriot who committed himself to serving the country through his skills, knowledge and talent, despite his great achievements and exposure to opportunities outside Kenya. “Prof Mugenda imparted great knowledge on research methods to our young people, not only through teaching, but also through his published works. We will forever be indebted to this great scholar,” he said., WORK HISTORY Prof Mugenda worked with the United Nations and several International non-governmental organisations as a researcher and a monitoring and evaluation specialist. He also lectured in the areas of research methods, monitoring and evaluation and statistics at the University of Nairobi, Iowa State University, Kenya Methodist University and United States International University-Africa. Mr Mugenda authored several books in research methods, including Qualitative Research Methods and Social Science Research: Theory and Principles. His widow is a currently a member of the Judicial Service Commission.   The recent history of Kenya’s higher education is characterised by exponential growth as well as legal, policy and administrative reforms.