Murang’a Governor Mwangi Wa Iria has restructured his cabinet and stripped off powers some of his county executive committee members (CECs) in bid to enhance service delivery. At the same time, Mr Wa Iria warned that he will sack those who will not perform on their mandates. In the new structure, power has been channelled to the Water CEC Paul Macharia who will also head the Agriculture and Cooperatives dockets. Mr Macharia, who is now acting as Mr Wa Iria’s Mr Fix It, will now have an enormous task of fighting the ongoing water wars, ensure the Murang’a County Creameries runs properly and to fight the coffee and avocado cartels which are the governor’s key projects. WATER WARS Last year, following the water wars pitting Governor Wa Iria and tycoon Peter Munga, Mr Macharia was charged with robbery with violence following a scuffle between the employees of Murang’a Water and Sewerage Company and county government officials. Initially the Agriculture docket was held by Mr Albert Mwaniki who will now head the Livestock and Veterinary docket while Edward Muiruri who held the Cooperatives docket will be in charge of Sports and Youth Services. Ms Sarah Masaki who held the Lands, Planning and Urban Housing docket will now concentrate with Planning and Urban Housing as the Lands docket has been given to Ms Cecilia Wanjiku who will now be in charge of Environment and Lands. Gerrison Nyagia will continue to be in charge of Education while David Waweru retains the Finance docket. WA IRIA'S LEGACY Speaking to the Nation after the reshuffle, Governor Wa Iria said the restructuring is aimed at realising his legacy as well as enhancing service delivery. He said the non-performing CECs have been put on a notice and that in future, they be fired and not just stripped of their powers. “I want the milk industry to be up and running in 10 days while we wipe out coffee cartels and this informed the reshuffle,” he said. The governor said his administration will partner with the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) who will be collecting revenue on behalf of the county government. REVENUE COLLECTION “I have established a new department of Directorate of Revenue Compliance which will link the county government and the KRA [for] revenue collection and the director will have to have served in the disciplined forces,” he said. The county boss has gazetted the Coffee Revival Board which will be tasked with fighting cartels and improving the coffee industry. The boars will be chaired Prof Kinandu Muragu, former executive director of the Kenya School of Monetary Studies. The governor’s latest moves come few days after he was elected the Vice Chairman of the Council of Governors. Pundits say the move to make changes in his government is aimed at giving him ample time to serve in the Council of Governors.   Water and Irrigation minister Paul Macharia accused of robing a man Sh13,450.