The office of the Auditor-General wants the State to carry out a review of the payment process to the Older Persons Cash Transfer (OPCT) so as to identify major bottlenecks that lead to delay in releasing payments and also improve the process for notifying beneficiaries on payment dates. The office further wants the government to enforce the stringent timelines given in the operational manual and make the requisition of funds from National Treasury earlier before months of payment. In its audit on the performance of the fund since its inception in 2007, Auditor General Edward Ouko reveals that the rate of unpaid amounts have been relatively increasing as more beneficiaries are enrolled to the programme. DISBURSEMENT Other challenges are increasing uncollected amounts by the beneficiaries, commission being paid on unpaid beneficiaries, overpaid bank commission, delays in payments to beneficiaries and late disbursement of funds by the exchequer at the National Treasury to the Social Protection Headquarters. OPCT payments are made to beneficiaries on a bi-monthly basis beginning the first week in the months of September, November, January, March, May and the last week of June in each financial year. “The audit analysed 21 OPCT payment cycles between September 2012 and January 2016 and found that cash transfers were made after the expected timelines and had delays of between 15 and 270 days,” Mr Ouko says in his report. The report adds: “Delays in payments to the OPCT beneficiaries were occasioned by three key factors, late requisition of funds by the ministry, late disbursement of funds by the exchequer at the National Treasury and delay in transfer of payments to the beneficiaries by the payment service provider.” RECONCILIATION The audit attributes the delay in payments to failure to detect beneficiaries’ finger prints, mis-routed cards, having deceased beneficiaries in the payroll and long distance to the pay point among other causes. The payment provider is expected to submit a reconciliation report and refunds for unpaid funds to the ministry’s designated account within 14 days of the close of the pay period. For example, between January to August 2015, an amount of Sh1,179,382 was put in a designated account held by the payment service provider. Similarly, an analysis of the two per cent commission paid to the service payment provider showed at times the providers are overpaid.   Over 400,000 senior citizens, who opened bank accounts, to benefit from Sh1.7bn.