Kenya’s political system was designed with the hope that, once you have been elected to the top seat, you will serve all parts of your country with equal commitment and equal benevolence. Yet the implication by certain Kenyans remains that President Uhuru Kenyatta should serve a certain ethnic province with much greater dedication than he serves Kenya’s other areas. What that idea means is that Mr Kenyatta should behave like a typical negative tribalist. The attitude by certain spokesmen and spokeswomen for our Central region is that the young President should focus all his attention on the region in which he was born. But there is always the exception to prove the rule. Koigi wa Wamwere, for example, used to condemn as “negative tribalism” the ethnic exclusivism that characterises our country. SECTARIANISM For me, however, the chief problem with the term “negative tribalism” is its implication that there exists such a thing as “positive tribalism”. This other term expresses the attitude that, in a multi-ethnic and multi-racial situation like Kenya, political governance should benefit only the ethnic or racial community among whom the serving President was born. That is an astonishingly small-minded and anti-human attitude to take. How do you supply the objective needs of your whole country whenever you distribute goods — material as well as ideal — only to your ethnic (or racial or religious or sectarian) community? What it would be ignoring is one fact that all human societies have experienced. It is well known the whole world over that whenever racism or tribalism or another such manifestation of tiny-mindedness becomes the general attitude in a country, then a national and even international catastrophe is just around the corner — as Hitler Germany has only recently proved to humankind. How is it that the most intelligent species that the solar system has ever produced continues to fail miserably to draw any perennial lessons from the myriad of examples of humanity’s tiny-mindedness? Why haven’t negative genderism, nationalism, racism, sectarianism and tribalism so miserably failed to teach humanity any perennial lesson? SMALL-MINDEDNESS Why do even the most civilised human communities still in the 21st century behave with typical human cruelties, prejudices, tiny-mindedness and unkindness the whole world over? I ask because, quite clearly, Koigi’s term “negative tribalism” either is self-contradictory or implies the existence of its opposite system, namely, “positive tribalism” and such of its imaginable counterparts as positive genderism, positive racism and positive sectarianism. The human species exists in Kenya in such numerous and colourful forms as Arab, English, Gujerati, Kikuyu, Luhya, Luo, Maasai, and so on ad infinitum. The question is: Why on this earth can I not be fully dedicated to the Luo, who gave birth to me, without looking down upon and ignoring the other ethnic, religious and sectarian human communities with whom evolution meant me to share the bounties of this good country and this good planet of ours? If all other human ethnicities and races living in Kenya ask themselves that same question and try to give it a truly honest answer, humanity might be able to rid itself overnight of all the small-mindedness that have characterised the human species ever since earthly evolution gave birth to us a few millennia ago. If humanity has as much brain as the Darwinian biologists tell us, then the brain should one day, soon, lift our species to the sublimity of specific recognition of our oneness not only with one another but also with other ethnic, gender, racial and religious human communities. Mr Ochieng is a veteran journalist.  