Ten-man Mount Kenya United on Sunday picked their second point of the 2018/2019 SportPesa Premier League when they played out a 1-1 draw with Vihiga United at the Bhukungu Stadium in Kakamega County. Timona Wanyonyi had fired Mount Kenya ahead in the eighth minute before substitute Alex Imbusia struck in the 69th minute to deny the coach Antony Mwangi's side their first win of the season. In the exchanges, Vihiga threatened early when Chris Masinza sent in a long dangerous cross from the right wing, which Dennis Wafula delayed in his run to tap past Philip Odhiambo at the visitors goal, before Steve Wakanya heavy strike from the centre went wide for a throw-in in favour of the visitors. Wanyonyi snatched the lead for Mount Kenya after eight minutes when he left for dead two Vihiga players inside the danger area, before turning well to shoot past a helpless Geofrey Oputi on the left side of the goalpost. The suprise goal seemed to have awakened the hosts' midfield which was crappy in the early exchanges They would have levelled matters in the 19th minute when Amos Kigadi found himself left with Odhiambo as the only man to beat, the goalkeeper leaving his line early to make a save. Wakanya was guilty for failing to cancel Wanyonyi's early effort a few minutes later from close range as the coach Michael Mururi's side continued pressing for a halftime equaliser. And they were not lucky again two minutes to the break as Odhiambo rose high to pair for a fruitless corner-kick Kigadi's header. Looking to turn fortune to his side, Mururi made a double substitution at the start of second half, resting Dennis Wafula and Masinza for Alex Imbusia and Michael Isabwa. Odhiambo denied substitute Isabwa from a dead-ball situation at the edge of the box, as Oputi also did well the other side to save Vihiga from going down by two goals after Wanyonyi had sent in a dangerous header. Substitute Imbusia levelled for Vihiga in the 69th minute when he bent in a free-kick at the edge of Mount Kenyas box. Center referee had awarded Vihiga a foul and sent keeper Odhiambo out after he handed the ball outside the box, when he came out of his line early to save Kigadi's deny goal bound shot. Odhiambo was replaced by reserved keeper Franklin Mwendwa. In Machakos, domestic cup holders Kariobangi Sharks also played out a 1-1 draw against returnees Kenya Commercial Bank in another league encounter.  