University education is at a crossroads and requires a rethink. Unplanned and uncoordinated expansion of universities in the past two decades brought us where we are. There are many universities but they are unable to sustain themselves. The quality of degrees and suitability of graduates for employment are under serious question. Universities suffer financial crises, poor and inadequate learning and teaching facilities, shortage of lecturers and inability to conduct research, which is central to higher education and training. REFORMS For the public universities, it is worse because they rely on state funding yet the economy cannot sustain them. The private ones depend on fees paid by students but, in recent years, enrolments have declined remarkably as reforms of examination administration at the high school level cut on cheating, which had bred large numbers of qualifiers. Consequently, their incomes have dropped drastically. Expansion was driven by demand for places, but without commensurate consideration for economic factors and market needs. Thus, to date, the country has more than 70 universities, most of them offering similar courses, mainly those that are cheap and easy to mount, but which do not add value to the national human resource requirements. University education, therefore, requires a review. This is the reason we acknowledge the new proposals to revitalise and streamline the sector. FUNDING The Education ministry has published a policy paper, Reforming Education and Training for Sustainable Development, which spells out plans for changing management, staff recruitment and financing models of public universities. The import of the proposals is that public universities must diversify sources of funding. No longer can they depend on the National Treasury for upkeep as that is not sustainable. Not when they have to determine salaries and create incentives to attract and retain top-notch academicians. The world over, universities thrive on fundraising — including engaging in industry-based consultancies, conducting research, mobilising alumni resources and commercialising production units. INNOVATION Until two years ago, local universities thrived on the parallel degree programmes but that revenue stream has dried out. Pursuing other innovative models is imperative. Given the prevailing situation, universities must think operate corporates. Staffing must be rationalised, luxuries such as vehicles for managers cut and expenditures controlled tightly. The universities have to focus their attention on their core business, which is teaching, research and community service.   The universities have to focus their attention on their core business, which is teaching, research and community service.