Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier believes they’ve finally replaced Ugandan-born turned Rwandese striker Meddie Kagere after confirming the acquisition of celebrated Kenyan international Dennis Oliech. The 33-year-old put pen to paper on a two-year deal on Wednesday and could make his debut this Sunday at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani, against his former club Mathare United. “We started the process of registering him at the federation and at the Confederation of African Football (Caf) so he can be ready to play any time,” Rachier confirmed in a one-on-one with Nation Sport at the Kenyatta stadium in Machakos on Friday. He added: “We all know he has a proven goal scoring record despite the negative reports around him. The coach feels he will deliver having watched him in training, also, we’ve had deficiency of outright strikers since the departure of Kagere (Meddie)." Gor lost Kagere to Tanzanian bigwigs Simba June last year but roped in Burundian Francis Mustafa as his replacement.   It later turned out that Mustafa was more of an offensive midfielder than an outright striker. “We never replaced Kagere. Mustafa (Francis) and Ssekisambu (Erisa) are not target strikers so the coach needed more options other than Tuyisenge,” Rachier noted of Oliech who has 37 goals in 77 appearances for the national team, Harambee Stars. Oliech is fondly remembered for scoring a goal against Cape Verde in July, 2003, at Kasarani stadium that confirmed Harambee Stars' ticket to the 2004 Africa Cup of Nations in Tunisia. The former Mathare United man last played a competitive match on September 6, 2015, when Kenya fell 2-1 to Zambia in a 2017 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier match at Nyayo National Stadium. “He hasn’t played for quite a long time. He is making a comeback, with match fitness, he will be of benefit to the club and the young players can learn a lot from him as well. He is going to help us, I am not worried about the quality of strikers I have,” Gor coach Hassan Oktay commented on Oliech who has formerly plied his trade in Qatar, France and Dubai.   He has 37 goals in 77 appearances for Kenya.