Sports Personality of the Year Awards (Soya) chief guest Ivorian track star Marie-Josee Ta Lou had a busy day two in Mombasa County as she was taken on a tour of Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) before conducting sprints clinics at the Mbaraki Sports Grounds courtesy of cosponsors New KCC and KPA. Ta Lou was on Wednesday evening joined in light training by Nairobi governor Mike Mbuvi Sonko on the sandy beaches of the Indian Ocean at Whitesands Beach Hotel. She had earlier been treated to a sumptuous welcome by Kenya Ports Authority Managing Director Daniel Manduku at the Galaxy Chinese restaurant located on Mama Ngina Drive. Soya top brass including founder Paul Tergat were also in attendance for the lunch. Bernard Osero, KPA’s head of co-operate affairs took the sprinter through a tour of the Container Terminal Two where she watched cranes being loaded and offloaded from ships docked at the port. An excited Ta Lou took time to take photos with the KPA officials and Soya guests as she brought activities at the busy container department to a standstill for a while as workers tried to catch a glimpse of the sprints sensation. At the KPA Mbaraki Sports ground, Ta Lou collaborated with former Kenyan 100m champion Grace Kidake to demonstrate how to hand over the relay baton in the 4x100m relay race. She was met by among others KPA sports officer Lenox Safari and top AK officials led by Coast chairman Kimoni Kisalu, Beatrice Taita, Isabela Mushila and Dina Anyango. ALL SET FOR EVENT Meanwhile, all is set for Friday’s Safaricom Sports Personality of the Year Awards (Soya) gala at the historic Fort Jesus, Mombasa. Nominees for the various categories arrived in the coastal town yesterday and were enjoying the sights and sounds of the famous tourist town. The National Social Security Fund (NSSF) was among the sponsors who presented their funds in support of the event giving out a sponsorship cheque of Sh2 million. “NSSF has sponsored Soya for the last five years and we are glad to be on board yet again this year” said Corporate Affairs manager Dr Chris Khisa adding that they have focused on sports as one of the Corporate Social Responsibility areas as they seek to help enhance youth talent and tap it from the grass roots level. Sports personality of the year awards (Soya) *Selected categories*Sportswoman of the Year Fatuma Zarika (Boxing) Janet Okello (Rugby) Hellen Obiri (Athletics) Beatrice Chepkoech (Athletics) Celliphine Chespol (Athletics) Sportsman of the YearWilly Ambaka (Rugby) Patrick Matasi (Football) Eliud Kipchoge (Athletics) Conseslus Kipruto (Athletics) Elijah Manangoi (Athletics) Team of the Year - MenGor Mahia Harambee Stars Davis Cup (Tennis) KANBIS Sports Club (Cricket) Kenya Deaf team (Handball) Team of the Year - Women Kenya Lionesses (Rugby) Telkom (Hockey) Malkia Strikers (Volleyball) Equity Hawks (Basketball) KPA (Basketball) Most Promising Personality of the Year - BoyEdward Zakayo (Athletics) Carlos Ochieng (Judo) Rhonex Kipruto (Athletics) Piston Mutamba (Football) Jackson Kavesa (Athletics) Most Promising Personality of the Year - Girl Teresia Engesha (Harambee Starlets) Beatrice Chebet (Athletics) Angela Okutoyi (Tennis) Maria Brunlehner (Swimming) Edinah Jebitok (Athletics) Coach of the Year Rosemary Owino (Tennis) Kevin ‘Bling’ Wambua (Kenya Lionnesses - Rugby) Jos Openda (Telkom - Hockey) Curtis Olago (KCB - Rugby) Josp Barasa (Prisons – Volleyball) Federation of the YearFKF, AK, KSSSA   The 30-year-old regretted that she won’t be exactly on holiday.