The visiting delegation from the International Association of Athletics Federation (IAAF) is confident Kenya will deliver an excellent World Under-20 Championships next year. Speaking during a press conference at Kasarani on Thursday at the end of their two-day meeting to assess progress in preparation for the event, the association’s Executive Director of Communication, Jackie Brock-Doyle expressed her belief that the country would deliver a world class event to match the standards set by the 2017 IAAF World Under-18 championship. The 14-strong delegation from the IAAF’s Monaco headquarters concluded their two-day visit by inspecting the Kasarani Stadium, where the event, which will be held in July will take place, proposed accommodation for athletes and officials, medical and broadcast teams as well as IAAF officials. “Kenya hosted an impressive World under-18 championship in 2017 and it is in the backdrop of that success that we know that next year’s competition will also be fantastic. The visit of the stadium, hotels and other facilities have shown that work is already in place for a great show,” Brock-Doyle told journalists. She, however, noted that the under-20 championships will require even greater planning since there will be six more disciplines than those at the world under-18 championships and an increase in the number of athletes that will participate as well as one extra day of competition. The six additional events are the 4x100m (men and women), 4x400m (men and women) as well as the 5,000m (men and women). “Because this is event is bigger than the under-18 championships, a lot of planning and work will be needed and I expect that organising committee will be up and running by the end of January to co-ordinate the planning,” she added. The IAAF expects over 160 countries and 2000 athletes to grace the competition which will run from July 7 to 12. Brock-Doyle further reiterated the body’s confidence in Kenya hosting a great event despite Tuesday’s terror attack at Riverside Drive. Athletics Kenya President Lt. Gen. (Rtd) Jackson Tuwei, who was also at the presser alongside Government representative, Farrah Kassim, assured that work would commence swiftly to avoid last minute rushes. “We want to do better than what we achieved in 2017 and that is why we shall have more of these meetings to ensure we update you on the progress,” Tuwei said. This was the second visit by the IAAF since the country was awarded the hosting rights two years ago. The IAAF is scheduled to do a third visit at the end of the year. The delegation were due to leave the country Thursday night.  