Champions Gor Mahia host Mount Kenya United Wednesday afternoon in a rescheduled SportPesa Premier League fixture at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani Gor head into the 4pm fixture after a motivating 2-1 win over New Stars of Cameroon in the Caf Confederation Cup playoff first leg on Sunday, while Mount Kenya lost 2-1 to Bandari in a league match in Nakuru on the same day. Tickets will retail at Sh500 VIP and Sh200 for regular and will go on sale Wednesday morning at Kenya Cinema, Ngomongo Police station, opposite Safari Park hotel and Kasarani stadium’s Gates 2 and 12. Bottom-placed Mount Kenya are winless in five matches against Gor who’ve three wins and two draws. “We are playing a team that has not won this season therefore we expect a tough match this afternoon,” Gor captain Harun Shakava, who is expected to return to the starting lineup after missing the Sunday clash due to suspension by Caf, said. “Players are motivated and ready to be given another chance to show what they’ve. We want three points at all cost,” added Shakava, who will partner Joash Onyango in defence. Ivorian striker Ephrem Guikan, legendary Dennis Oliech and forward Nicholas Kipkirui are all available for selection after being sidelined over the weekend as they are yet to be registered to feature in continental assignments. Gor are sixth on the table with 10 points from six games. They posted a 4-0 and 2-2 score line against Mount Kenya, formerly Nakumatt, in last season’s meetings. “It’s a match like any other, there’s no special training for it,” Mount Kenya midfielder Moses Odhiambo said. The former Gor Mahia man added: “We are also chasing for maximum points, we cannot underrate Gor despite their inconsistent form in the domestic league.” K’Ogalo will depart for Limbe, Cameroon on Friday for the reverse tie of their continental fixture. before connecting to Dar es Salaam for the SportPesa Cup that commences next Tuesday.   Simba fans have already taken to social media predicting an easy triumph for their side.