There is a simmering discontent among education stakeholders following the Education ministry’s plan to recall retired principals to manage tertiary colleges. Some members of the institutions are against the decision to reinstate principals who retired from 2015. While several principals left the service by end of 2018, many of them having handed over to new successors or their deputies, education stakeholders feel there are enough qualified personnel to head all Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) colleges in the country. In what appears to be generating heat within the Kenya Association of Technical Training Institutes (KATTI) fraternity, the move is said to be part of a wider scheme to ensure some individuals who have retired are in charge of projects worth billions of shillings coming to the institutions. 'BAD FAITH' In a communication to the principals on their WhatsApp group, the directorate of TVET announced that the Public Service Commission (PSC) has approved extension of contracts for one year for all trainers and principals who retired from 2015 to date and are willing to come back. “We will halt deployment of principals till January so as to include those who retired and willing to come back,” read the communication. It further said the recruitment of 1,000 trainers has been approved and that the process would start immediately. However, some stakeholders in the TVET fraternity, who sought anonymity for fear of being victimised, said the recruitment of trainers and increased capitation should be the central focus of the directorate, and not the recall of retired principals. They said the move is in bad faith and will lower the morale of deserving administrators who should have been promoted. A principal from a TVET college in central Kenya told the Nation he was dismayed by the ministry’s plan, saying it will create tension and confusion in the institutions. “We have the capacity in the job market to take up the principal and trainer positions. New graduates should also be given a chance to be employed as trainers,” he said. LABOUR His sentiments were shared by his counterpart from Nyanza, who said there were many able people who had graduated from 2006 and should be given an opportunity to serve the country. He added that the move would create animosity between the current holders, for instance the deputy principals who were promoted, and the recalled principals. “Many deputies were promoted. Where would they go when their former bosses are recalled? This will create many issues in the institutions particularly if the recalled administrators did not bring meaningful changes when they were at the helm,” he said. With over 218 TVET colleges in the country — including 70 news ones — the sector has a shortage of more than 3,000 trainers. It is estimated that there are more than 8,000 unemployed technical trainers in the labour market. When contacted for comment, KATTI chairperson Gloria Mutungi said she was waiting for official communication from the ministry. “There is some information I am waiting for from the director. It can only be official with a written communication,” she said. SH1 BILLION Unconfirmed reports indicated that the recall of the retired principals was allegedly a ploy designed to bring back only three retired national polytechnic heads, who were lobbying for an extension of their contracts for one more year. It was alleged that the biggest driving factor was the intention to manage World Bank-sponsored projects in those institutions, which are being funded to the tune of Sh1 billion each. Some three principals had retired, but managed to convince their councils to give them an extension of six months, which expired last December. The extension of the tenures is also a matter before the High Court in Kisumu. The suit is challenging the extension of the Kisumu National Polytechnic principal’s contract without undergoing a competitive process and is due for hearing on February 7.  