Several leaders have pledged to rally the Maasai community to support Deputy President William Ruto come the 2022 presidential election. Kajiado Governor Joseph ole Lenku was first to say so on Saturday during the burial of senior chief Samuel Koriata in Narok South, a ceremony at which Mr Ruto was the chief guest. “Some are telling me to forget about the succession debate but let me say today that I will rally the Maasai community to support Dr Ruto so he can win the 2022 elections” said Mr Lenku. He said the community's leaders were holding talks on forming a united front ahead of that vote. PROJECTS Narok Governor Samuel Tunai noted that the Jubilee Party administration had initiated projects and is pursuing others under President Uhuru Kenyatta's Big Four agenda on affordable housing, manufacturing, food security and universal health coverage. "Our three counties are considering forging a united front. We shall walk with you since you have been instrumental in the development agenda of the Maasai people," Mr Tunail told the DP. Narok West MP Gebriel Tongoyo praised Mr Ruto for Jubilee projects in the region. “When a warrior is set for combat, he always asks a friend to give a spear, bows and arrows or any weapon for the fight," he said. "We assure you of our support,” Mr Tongoyo added. The others who promised to support Mr Ruto were Samburu Governor Moses Lenokulal and MPs Korei Lemein (Narok South) and David Ole Sankok (nominated) . RUTO'S REMARKS The DP, however, steered clear of the succession politics and spoke of projects. "We have built 130 technical training institutes in the country. Three of them are in Kajiado East, West and North and five in Narok South, West Emurua Dikirr and Narok East. We will soon build one in Narok North" he said. Mr Ruto further said the national government had pumped over Sh3 billion into the construction of roads in the Kajiado and more than Sh5 billion into similar projects in Narok. He said the construction of Narok-Sikinani, Narok-Mai was Kami, Ololulunga-sogoo, Kilgoris-Murkan and Suswa-Ngong roads was ongoing. In the last five years, he added, 40,000 homes, up from 8,000, benefited from the last mile electricity connections project.   They says there is no debt to be paid as anybody can be president.