President Uhuru Kenyatta has eulogised former Youth Enterprise Development Fund board chairman Bruce Odhiambo as a gifted entrepreneur following his death in Nairobi Hospital on Monday night. In his condolence message President Kenyatta said that Mr Odhiambo, a former music producer, used his talent to develop businesses and institutions, some of which played a big role in mentoring the youth. “Bruce Odhiambo was a go-getter. He was a talented musician who joined hands with others to entertain Kenyans with the legendary Mombasa based Safari Sounds Band and Spartans,” said Mr Kenyatta. The President picked Mr Odhiambo to chair the Youth Fund's board in 2014 after revoking the appointment of Gor Evans Semelang’o. But Mr Odhiambo resigned two years later, barely a year before his term ended, after being linked to alleged theft at the Youth Fund. Despite his humble beginnings, Mr Kenyatta said, Mr Odhiambo never shied away from mentoring other Kenyans to use their talents to make a living. The President cited Mr Odhiambo's production studios Johari Cleff where he mentored and sharpened the skills of young people who were interested in creative arts, saying many Kenyans who are currently in television production have passed through his hands. TRIBUTES Following his death, many artistes and political leaders took to social media to mourn his passing. "Very sad about the passing of my friend Bruce Odhiambo. In the last three months, he remained strong even as his sick heart failed him. It was sad to watch him suffer. I will cherish the many moments we spent together. We have lost a good man and one of the most creative minds," Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua wrote on Twitter. Mr Mutua had earlier said that he had visited him in hospital. Renowned radio sports journalist Ms Carol Radull said Mr Odhiambo was supportive during the launch of Radio Jambo Kenya in 2008. "You were front and centre when we created @RadioJamboKenya in 2008. I'll remember you for your contribution to Kenya's music industry. Rest in peace Bruce Odhiambo," said Ms Radull on Twitter.   In the star-studded controversial Kenyan movie Project Daddy, a woman is on the prowl for a man to father her child in a no-frills relationship of convenience. The hunt zeroes in on, among others, the towering figure of fellow actor Bruce Odhiambo, as the plot takes its natural progression.