The par 71 Muthaiga Golf Club course will this weekend stage the 77th edition of the Kenya Ladies Golf Union Chairman’s Prize. The one-day event, which winds up current KLGU chairperson Lucy Muhinga’s term, will be held on Friday just a day after the KLGU annual general meeting to also be held at Muthaiga. The AGM will elect a new council that will take over the running of ladies union for the next one year. The event, where Muhinga has also invited men golfers to join over 100 ladies, is a culmination of a busy 2018 calendar where she steered the ladies union to greater heights. The KLGU boss, unlike some of the previous KLGU chairs, was able to attend nearly all the ladies events in the country, approved and recognised by the union at club level. On the other hand, she was able to steer the ladies team to a third-place finish out of 18 countries in the All Africa Ladies Challenge Tournament (AACT) held in Accra Ghana, where besides the national team, over 40 ladies travelled to play in the Ghana Ladies Open. Last week, President Uhuru commended the KLGU on good governance during the anti-corruption conference for good accountability of public funds and reporting of having a balance of Sh500,000 out of the Sh2.69m funds given by the Ministry of Sports to train and send the Kenya team to Ghana. This weekend’s tournament has attracted good sponsorship. Leading the other corporate sponsors will be East Africa Breweries. Others include Total Kenya, Eagle Africa Insurance Brokers, CarMax and Unilever Kenya. “Last year, the KLGU Council oversaw the implementation of the Strategic Plan initiating golf clinics in Nairobi, Rift Valley, Central and Western regions. These clinics were conducted by various golf pros and were attended by both ladies and junior boys and girl golfers." Muhinga said KLGU would continue offering these clinics all across the country. She said the strategic plan aims at getting more ladies and girls to play golf and also encouraging handicapped ladies to lower their handicaps. Meanwhile, among the lady golfers drawn to vie for the fabulous prizes being offered, will include some of the country’s leading lady golfers such as Kiambu’s Joyce Wanjiru, Esther Chumo of Eldoret, Nyali’s Susan Stokes and Vet Lab’s Mary Karano, Rachel Ndei, Agnes Nyakio and Mercy Nyanchama. Hosts Muthaiga will have players like Agnes Wanjiru, Florence Maina, Lucie Maina and Christine Ocholla. Also listed to play, are past chairmen of the KLGU, who include the legendary Rose Naliaka, Dorcas Mbalanya, Jaswant Vohora, and Margaret Gatere. In the men’s section, besides some of the club’s top players like club captain Edgar Kalya, immediate past captain James Ondigo, Mwai Mbuthia, Selest Kilinda, David Ngugi, Evans Kidero and Kamau Thugge, the KLGU chairman has also invited a number of guests. These include Kenya Open Golf Limited chairman Peter Kanyago of Karen, former Karen chairman Jimmy Kimondo and Limuru’s Amos Ngonjo. Meanwhile, the 36-hole Mt Kenya Championship at the nine-hole Nyeri Golf Club course kicks off the Kenya Amateur Golf Championship (KAGC) series following the postponement of the Sigona Bowl to March. This year, the event has attracted a field of 132 players drawn from various clubs in the country. As usual, Vet Lab Sports Club has entered a strong team that is made up of Robinson Owiti, Mike Kisia, Isaack Makokha, and Isaiah Otuke. Taking on the Kabete players will be George Felix of Kenya Railway, Kenya Amateur Stroke Play champion Samuel Njoroge also from Railway, Karen’s Reuben Njoroge and Kevin Juma of Royal Nairobi Golf Club. Missing from the draw, are John Kariuki, Paul Muchangi and John Karichu from Limuru and the KAGC series defending champion Edwin Mudanyi of Vet Lab.  