Emotions ran high on Saturday as Mr Japhet Ndunguja, a General Service Unit officer who was killed in the DusitD2 attack in Nairobi, was buried. Mr Ndunguja, 26, was eulogised as a diligent officer who put his life on the line to save his fellow countrymen during the ceremony attended by government officials, family and friends at Kimala village in Taveta, Taita Taveta County. Among those who attended the burial included Cabinet secretaries Fred Matiang’i (Interior) Joe Mucheru (ICT) Governor Granton Samboja, Senator Jones Mwaruma, MPs Jones Mlolwa (Voi) Andrew Mwadime (Mwatate) and Naomi Shaban (Taveta). CS Matiang’i said the government would not leave anything to chance in the war on terror. He said 10 people had been arrested in connection with the DusitD2 hotel attack that left at least 21 people dead. TERRORIST ATTACK Mr Matiang’i said the government will ensure that all those involved in the terrorist attack are brought to book. “We will fight terrorism to the bitter end,” he said. He urged parents to monitor their children to prevent radicalisation among the youth. Mr Matiang'i said the government had put up measures including police modernisation to enhance security. The CS, who said security is vital for economic growth of the country, vowed to protect all Kenyans. Mr Matiang’i said the government was proud of the security agencies for rapidly intervening to rescue more than 1,200 people who were in the hotel at the time of the attack. “We will stand with this family and those of other officers who may lose their lives in the course of their duty,” he said. SECURITY Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet, GSU Commandant Douglas Kanja and other senior police officers also attended the burial ceremony. Mr Boinnet said the security agencies will not relent in the ongoing fight against terror and other forms of crime. “Our presence here today is a testimony of our resilience as a force. They (terrorists) have failed and we will stand firm in securing our country," he said. He said the police service would support the family of the slain officer. The government is already constructing a house for the family of the officer at his Kimala home. DEDICATED OFFICERS Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi, who also attended the burial, said his son was among those who were rescued by police officers at the hotel. “My child and other people were saved by dedicated officers. I came here with my family to honour the fallen soldier," he said. He said he supported President Uhuru Kenyatta and the police in their effort to ensure that the country is secure. “Police officers are not (our) enemies, we should support and give them a chance to serve us,” he said. Taveta MP Naomi Shaban eulogised Mr Ndunguja as a young man who put his life in danger to save others.   Twenty-one people died during the attack.