"Year 2019, please be kind to us!" This is the earnest prayer by most Kenyans who feel that 2018 was a difficult and challenging year. Job insecurity, unemployment and unaccomplished financial goals due to high cost of living topping the list of why some quarters were delighted to bid the year goodbye. For Wycliffe Asuga, 32, a father of one, 2018 was the year he watched his savings dwindle from Sh100,000 to nothing. “Last year, I desired to buy a shamba and build our own house as my family currently lives in a rented house. I started saving at the beginning of the year but the plan didn’t materialise,” he said. SURVIVAL Wycliffe and his wife are shoe shiners in Nairobi. When he floated the idea of buying land to his wife, they set a target and decided to give their best at their jobs. “Mid 2018, she fell ill and couldn’t continue working. All that I had saved was exhausted seeking treatment. She is set to go for an operation later this month and I hope all will be well,” he said. To add to his woes, the number of customers seeking for shoe shining services went down in 2018. “What I currently earn is just for survival. However, if things brighten up in 2019, I intend to start livestock farming in the village,” Wycliffe added. His agony is shared by Collins Ouma, 26, who is currently looking for a job. For the past few weeks, Collins has been walking around with his resume and certificates hoping to start 2019 in employment. CONTRACT “I started a clothing business in June but it crumpled in August. Afterwards, I got a temporary contract with a local security firm. I am currently looking for a job,” he offered adding that he would wish to complete his university studies. But for Peris Muthoni, a security officer, 2018 is a year that will remain etched in her mind. She enrolled her son at the University of Nairobi. “Although I didn’t accomplish many financial goals that I had set for myself, I am happy that I managed to take him to the university. I am optimistic that 2019 will be a better year.   President briefs Kenyans on the year's events and urges unity for more growth in 2019.