The Ministry of Education has approved 50,420 Form One students to change schools online ahead of the end of the reporting exercise today. In Thursday’s update, Education Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang’ said that more information would be provided today at the conclusion of the exercise that started on Monday. The government hopes to admit 1,052,364 students by the end of the day. Dr Kipsang’ could not provide details on how many students have so far taken up their secondary school slots. After reporting, those who have not taken up their slots are expected to be placed in schools where vacancies will be available as from next week. This is after the government banned a second selection. DIGITISATION The second selection used to provide room for Ministry of Education and other senior officers to place their children in elite schools. The government has insisted that admissions must be processed through the National Education Management Information System (Nemis), and those who fail will not receive capitation from the government. Schools are required to download and print their selection lists from Nemis, which is supposed to be used as backup in case of connectivity challenges. Dr Kipsang’ said Nemis will help in managing complex data in the education sector. “The Ministry of Education will therefore be able to harmonise all the data and hence have a single source of data. [It] will also be able to secure factual and accurate information for proper planning and budget allocation,” the PS said. FUNDS The Teachers Service Commission (TSC) has since asked the government for funds to recruit 40,000 teachers to support 100 percent transition. Schools will receive Sh16 billion to improve existing infrastructure. The funds are expected to ensure that all the candidates the ministry is placing in secondary schools have the resources they need for learning. The government allocates Sh22,244 to every student enrolled in a public school. At the same time, an MP wants the reporting date of Form One students extended by another two weeks, saying, today’s deadline is too strenuous for parents who have just come out of a financially demanding festive season. BURSARY Uriri lawmaker Mark Nyamita also said in a letter to Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed that the Constituency Development Fund Board, whose bursary kitty a majority of students rely on, is yet to release money to the constituencies. Proposing the extension of the reporting date, the MP added: “Alternatively, the Ministry of Education should release an urgent memo directing all school heads to admit all students notwithstanding the fees payment.” He noted that parents from the sugar belt regions are still waiting for their pending cane dues. Mr Nyamita expressed concern that many bright students, who lack fees, risk being locked out if the ministry fails to extend the reporting dates. “We risk having bright but needy students missing their hard-earned slots due to ministerial policies that can otherwise be made compatible with prevailing economic circumstances,” Mr Nyamita said.   Ministry asks schools to download and print their Form One selection forms.