Bomet Governor Joyce Laboso failed to deliver her New Year address on Monday night after she encountered a hostile crowd at a local stadium. Dr Laboso who was in the company of Senator Christopher Langat, Woman Rep Joyce Korir and several MCAs were greeted by residents chanting Chama Cha Mashinani slogans at the function. Residents who braved a drizzle and a cold night waved the CCM placards and chanted support for the party as they surged forward while the leaders and organisers watched in dismay from the dais. OUT OF TOUCH Dr Laboso were forced to sneak out of the function held at Bomet Green stadium after it turned out she was in for a hostile reception. The ceremony which entailed prayers and an all night long entertainment by various secular and gospel artistes and comedians had been organised by the county government in collaboration with Taach FM, a local radio station. “It is a tradition for the sitting governor and the leaders present to address the participants in such functions, but this time around, the crowd could not allow their representatives to do that,” said Mr Dancel Kirui, a former parliamentary aspirant in Bomet Central. Mr Kirui said, “This is an indictment on the leaders of the county who should read the writing on the wall. It speaks of volumes of how the elected leaders are out of touch with the voters on the ground.” Former governor Isaac Ruto, the Chama Cha Mashinani party leader who was dislodged from the position by Dr Laboso in the last general election, did not attend the ceremony. Nominated Senator Alice Milgo, Members of Parliament Ronald Tonui (Bomet Central) , Beatrice Kones (Bomet East), Gideon Koskei (Chepalungu), Brighton Yegon (Konoin), Dominic Koskei (Sotik)and nominated MP Wilson Sossion did not attend the function. RECONCILIATION Leader of majority at the county assembly Josephat Kirui has downplayed the incident. “The event was not meant for speeches per se, but a prayer session for the county. We elected to exit after the prayers were offered,” said Mr Kirui. Earlier on Tuesday, Dr Laboso called for unity among leader in the county. She was speaking during a party hosted by the Senator Lang'at at his home in Kibisorwet village, Chepalungu sub-county. “We should all seek to open a new chapter by minimising political spats and instead come together, identify and roll out development projects for the benefit of the people at the grassroots,” said Dr Laboso. Dr Langat on his part said the political bickering in the county that characterised the year 2018 should be avoided and reconciliation be embraced. Mrs Korir said there was need for the county leadership to engage the national government to ensure that pre-election promises, especially those ones relating to roads construction, expansion of health facilities and implementation of water projects, are implemented.   They waved CCM placards and chanted party slogans as they surged forward.