Q. I have been a receptionist for two-and-a-half years now, and while the job enables me to feed my family, I desire to rise to manager level in the organisation I work for. This is my first job. I have a degree in business administration and I believe that I work hard. Just how long should I be patient waiting to achieve my career ambition?  The stories of successful people often share humble beginnings. While they are rarely identical, such accounts usually have elements such as an unrelenting pursuit of a clear objective, investment in self-development, a bias for taking advantage of opportunities and a spirit of perseverance. What does it take to become an effective manager in your organisation? What kind of manager do you desire to be? What academic and professional qualifications are required to that end? What is your ultimate career goal? What impact do you want to have in your world through your career? Do you know your greatest abilities including those that you need to nurture to succeed? How has your performance at work been rated so far? How would you describe the reputation that you have built with your peers, bosses and others in the organisation? What opportunities can you exploit in your current position and circumstances? Have you spoken to some of the managers you admire to understand what it takes to reach their level? Have you expressed your career interest to your line manager and HR colleagues? If so, what have you made of their responses? Supposing you were invited for an interview, are you prepared to demonstrate your ability? Is your CV updated to reflect your current role and key achievements? What impression do the external stakeholders who visit the reception have of the organisation as a result of interacting with you? What impression do they have of you? Would some of them be prepared to offer you a job in their organisations based on how you carry yourself and come across? The keys to greater opportunities are often forged in our current environment, it is not merely the passage of time but what you deliberately and patiently do with your opportunities today that will determine whether you attain your career ambitions tomorrow. *** Do you have a question? Send it to our team: mynetwork@ke.nationmedia.com   You join an organisation to make a contribution as well as build your career.