Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has declared "total war" on dreaded criminal gangs in Kisauni, Mombasa County, following the killing of at least 20 people in 2018. Dr Matiang'i, who is known for tough-talk and reforms, on Monday vowed to wipe out all criminal activities in the sub-county he visited on Monday. 'DON'T WORRY' The CS said that the ministry had taken measures to ensure security in the area. “I assure residents that we are completely prepared and have the resources and the capacity to keep the country safe. No one should be worried,” said. “We designed a security operation that we are implementing around this area. I will communicate when that operation is done." In the plan, the CS said, specific areas were mapped out in government efforts to catch the gangsters. "The ministry is working on such places ... you can testify that for the last four or five days you have not heard anything from Kisauni. Our responsibility is to take care of the people and that is what we are going to do." ATTACKED CHIEF Speaking at Jocham Hospital in Kisauni, the minister said he visited the chief from Kilifi who was attacked by residents and mourners as he tried to stop a disco matanga. The chief, David Kahindi, his assistant and three police officers were injured when stones were hurled at them when they raided the event in Shariani location. Mr Kahindi sustained head and leg injuries. Dr Matiangi condemned the assault saying all those involved will be found and punished. "The chief will be discharged," he said. DISCO BAN Dr Matiang’i said the ban on night discos will remain as they are no longer a cultural event but a platform for the sale of drugs and illicit brews, especially in Kilifi and other parts of the coastal region. “This disco matanga is no longer a thing of celebration. It is an opportunity for thugs to engage in criminal activities. We have cases where young girls are raped and end up pregnant,” he said. He wanted that anyone found operating a disco after 11pm will be arrested and that those who attack security officers will also be brought to book. “We will not compete with thugs and we will not surrender this country to criminals. The county commissioner will find those who attacked the chief and we will bring them to justice,” the security boss said, adding those arrested will be arraigned. He noted that such people should "live in jail, not among innocent people" but acknowledged the courts' power to determine the fate of suspects. “We are going to look for them wherever they are, even under the bed, until they are found, “ he said. Information minister Joe Mucheru thanked the village elders for saving the chief. “This shows we have true Kenyans. Thank you for stopping the people from killing the chief," he said.   Some parts of Kisauni and Nyali are no-go zones due to gang activities.