President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy, William Ruto, have reassured the country that they are committed to uniting Kenyans amid claims that there are factions threatening to tear Jubilee Party apart over 2022 politics. Instead, DP Ruto accused the media of peddling falsehoods over the ruling party's alleged factions. Speaking on Sunday at Our Lady of the Rosary Catholic Parish, Ridgeways in Kiambu County, President Kenyatta said the country’s attainment of its development goals depends on peace and unity. “There is nothing we cannot achieve…because we are committed to bringing our people together,” Mr Kenyatta said. SOW UNITY The Head of State urged the church’s peace ambassadors to spread their efforts countrywide. “Where people sow hatred, you shall sow love. Where people sow division, you shall sow unity because at the end of the day that is what shall ensure we take our country forward,” Mr Kenyatta said. In his sermon, Cardinal Njue asked Christians to be instruments of peace in the family, community and country. Mr Ruto and former First Lady Mama Ngina Kenyatta also attended the Sunday mass which was conducted by Cardinal John Njue and also marked the official inauguration of the parish. 'PARTY UNITED' Speaking later at the Joy Celebrations Centre in Naivasha, Mr Ruto insisted that the party was united under the leadership of Mr Kenyatta. The DP maintained that there was no competition with the ruling party either between his allies or those of his boss Mr Kenyatta. ““There no divisions in Jubilee and only those with parochial beliefs are advancing this position,” announced the DP. He said all the Jubilee leaders we be rallied towards supporting Jubilee's Big Four Agenda and the fight against corruption. UHURU'S AGENDA He termed the ruling party as having a national outlook with strong democratic foundation, telling off powerbrokers. “Soko ya fitina, uongo na chuki imefungwa (the market for vendetta, lies and jealousy is closed) there is no room for naysayers. “We are committed towards achieving our goals of uniting the nation, building bridges and taking our country to the next level,” said Mr Ruto. He maintained that he was still the principal assistant to the President having taken the oath of office. “Hakuna mwingine amechukua kiapo kusema atakua msaidizi wa Rais Uhuru Kenyatta. “No one else has taken oath of office to say that he is the Deputy President." 'PARTY INTACT' He, however, said the party will continue reaching out to like-minded leaders in a bid to spur economic growth and unify of the country. The DP started his 13-minute speech by quoting the Bible, saying those who know their God shall prosper. Nakuru County, he explained, was a special place for Jubilee, reminding the faithful that the journey towards the formation of the party started in the area. Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu too maintained that the party was still intact, adding that the leaders could not be dissuaded from engaging in politics. “Politics is our cup of tea. We must engage in politics but I am calling upon my colleagues not to incite the public,” said the governor. RUTO LOYALISTS Early on, more than 40 lawmakers from the Mt Kenya region trooped to the lakeside town to welcome the Deputy President to show their support his 2022 presidential bid. “We have listened to our electorate and they are fully behind the Deputy President that is why we are here, but we shall not do politics today,” said the MP who requested anonymity. The MPs said they will employ a different strategy and avoid the 2022 politics on the national platform. “Our sheer presence speaks volumes on where our support lies,” added the MP.   He was an ardent supporter of the KK alliance which essentially birthed Jubilee.