Ugandan import Erisa Ssekisambu struck a hat-trick while Dennis Oliech added another one from the spot as champions Gor Mahia eases past 10-man Mount Kenya United 4-1 in a SportPesa Premier League (SPL) at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani on Wednesday. Former Gor midfielder Moses “Dube” Odhiambo came off the bench to grab a consolation for the visitors who were reduced to 10 men after defender Frank Balabala was sent off on 63 minutes. A minute of silence was observed before kick off in honour of Tuesday’s Riverside terror attack victims among them football enthusiast James Oduor Radido alias Cobra. Cobra was an ardent Gor Mahia and local football fan. He was at Kasarani on Sunday when the Kenyan champions laboured to beat New Stars de Doula of Cameroon in the first leg of their Caf Confederation Cup play off. Mount Kenya remain bottom of the log on two points, 12 below Gor after eight games though the champions have a game in hand. Ssekisambu netted the opener three minutes after referee Hoses Omondi got the encounter underway by tapping home George “Blackberry” Odhiambo cross. Oliech converted a 58th minute penalty after Francis Mustafa hacked down in the box by Kelvin Thairu. Mount Kenya protested the penalty brewing a scuffle that led to Balabala’s red card. Moses Odhiambo, who replaced John “Softie” Ndirangu in the 55th minute, capitalised on a miscued clearance from Shaffik Batambuze to reduce the deficit before Ssekisambu added his second and Gor's third on 77 minutes after slotting home Batambuze’s left foot inswinger. Odhiambo could have claimed a brace but his 89th minute penalty hit the crossbar before Gor cleared their lines. Ssekisambu then completed his hat-trick after he was teed up by Oliech at the death. Mount Kenya caused Gor problems early on with Samuel Ndung’u’s precise cross from the left flank going unanswered. On 38 minutes, Francis Mustafa's glancing header missed the target after connecting to a Shaffik Batambuze cross. Ivorian striker Ephrem Guikan had his shot from inside the box miss the target five minutes earlier much to the chagrin of a few fans that had turned up for the midweek clash. Mount Kenya fluffed a glorious chance to pull level on 39 minutes. Paul Odhiambo charged down the right flank to deliver a cross that fell into Ndung’u’s waiting legs but the former Mathare United man volleyed wide six yards out. On 41 minutes, the dangerous Ndung’u dribbled past Wellington Ochieng’ to weigh in a long ball from a tight angle but Gor custodian Peter Odhiambo did well to parry it out for a fruitless corner. Gor coach Hassan Oktay pulled off the misfiring Guikan for the legendary Oliech on 42 minutes, a change that left the Ivorian furiously charging back to the dressing room as fans jeered him off.   Football Kenya Federation Nick Mwendwa led tributes.