Security forces have allowed motorists who had parked their vehicles at the dusitD2 office complex before last Tuesday's terror attack to collect them. Tenants were also permitted on Tuesday to get into their offices and collect belongings including documents and electronics. Security was however heightened around the location, with only those who proved to have been working there allowed to get in. Officers checked car owners' log books and driving licenses and asked those who had not been registered at the entrance to wait for further checks. “I left my motorcycle at the gate when I heard a loud bang. I left it and ran away and since the attack happened, security personnel at the gate did not let anyone in," boda boda operator Francis Musyoka said.     DAMAGE Most of the vehicles were in good condition since the whole complex remained under the guard of police officers. Some, however, had broken windows and flat tyres. “I am relieved to have my car back. I have been worried about it the whole week. I found the rear window broken but I am glad I have it back," said Cynthia Oketch. "People lost their lives and more valuable things so I thank God." During the attack on January 15, Al-Shabaab terrorists hurled grenades into cars , causing three of them to go up in flames. One of them blew himself up outside Secret Garden Restaurant and the others damaged property inside buildings as they walked through the Grosvenor building at 14 Riverside Drive while shooting indiscriminately.     PROBE So far, four more people, including the mother of one of the terrorists killed in the gunfight during the attack, have been arraigned. Ali Salim Gichunge’s mother Sakina Mariam Abdalla, George Ndung’u, Mukhtar Ibrahim and Isaak Hussein appeared at the Milimani Law Courts, Nairobi, but police obtaiend orders to detain them longer as they investigate. Apart from Ms Abdalla, who was detained for 10 more days, the other suspects will all be held for 30 days.     Meanwhile, three people on a terror watch list surrendered to police in Isolo County on Monday but their parents said they were innocent and in danger. They are Abdi Ali Kanchora, Boru Abdi Bidu and Ramadhan Wario Bonaya (alias Rasho). There had been reports of a fourth suspect's surrender or arrest by police but Isiolo County Commissioner John Ondego said they were not aware.   Location is popular with foreigners and is home to three Western embassies.