After handing walkovers to their opponents in their midweek National Super League fixtures on Wednesday, Kangemi All Stars and Migori Youth have come out appealing to well-wishers to salvage their financial ship. Both sides were slated to travel to Mombasa in time for Wednesday's matches but did not manage, hence donating three easy points to their opponents Modern Coast Rangers and Coast Stima. “We don’t have a financier since the chairman pulled out,” Kangemi All Stars secretary general John Mugo, whose side has given two walkovers this season, told Nation Sport on Thursday. “We are struggling a lot and have to rely on fans of good will, the local leaders led by the area Member of Parliament Tim Wanyonyi, who has been of help,” added Mugo, desperately calling for sponsors. “A home match requires an approximate budget of Sh25,000 and at least Sh60,000 for an away fixture. We had hopes with betting firms but nothing has come out of the proposals we presented. We are a community club, hence welcome anyone who can come through,” he concluded. Migori Youth, who were to play Coast Stima, are begging the county government of Migori to come to their aid. “We’ve a youthful side with majority of the players fresh from high school, while a number have been elevated from our academy, Migori Youth Talents academy,” Club chairman Aziz Osman revealed. “Such players need motivation to post good results which has not been the case. We are nurturing the future of the nation and as a county, if we can support them then we shall expose them to higher levels where they can gain more experience,” stressed Osman, while thanking Uriri MP Mark Nyamita, who has bailed them out previously. Migori Youth sit bottom of the 20-team log on three points, one below of 17th placed Kangemi. Ushuru, who ended Administration Police’s unbeaten run with a 2-0 win in midweek, top on 22 points, three ahead of closest-challengers Talanta. “Our target is to gain the direct promotion slot, we’ve to work extra hard for this to be achieved,” said Talanta captain Michael Muya.  