A post-mortem report has shown that slain journalist Johnson Nyakundi died of strangulation. The autopsy was conducted at the Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital mortuary and was witnessed by detectives and two family members. “As a result of my examination, I formed the opinion that the cause of death was asphyxia from manual strangulation,” read the report by Dr Benjamin Nambuye. Asphyxia is a condition arising when the body is deprived of oxygen, causing unconsciousness or death. Mr Nyakundi was found dead at his home in Jogoo estate, Kisii County on New Year’s day. The former cameraman for Newstar, Mwanyagetinge and Voice of Victory TV stations, was last seen two days before Christmas. A foul smell led neighbours to his house. Detectives said he was killed elsewhere and his body taken to his house and carefully placed on his bed near the wall. FIRST ATTACK His brother Douglas Moseti said there was also a stab wound near his eye and blood spots were found at his doorstep and inside the house. About three years ago, the late Nyakundi was kidnapped from his house by unknown men in the presence of his estranged wife and child. “He was abandoned in Nyanchwa after being clobbered and left for dead by his assailants. We took him to Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital where he was treated and discharged after some days,” said Mr Moseti. Nyakundi recovered after two years from the attack but developed leg complications and has been limping since. “We suspect these goons had been hired to kill him but they did not succeed then, they now have finally achieved their plans,” said Mr Moseti. He said when he went to his brother’s house after he was killed, his radio was still on and suspects the assailants could have turned it on to hoodwink neighbours that he was well in the house. “We want justice for our brother. He died a poor hopeless man, without the joy of his children and home. His killers must have known him well, given that they took him to his bed after accomplishing their mission,” he added. After the first attack, his family put him on seclusion for security purposes, but he left the house for unknown reasons and moved to the house in Jogoo estate where he finally met his death. He had stayed there for only six months. County Police Commander Bernard Muli said they have begun investigations. Nyakundi, popularly referred to as Embata was last seen by his colleagues at club Attic in Kisii town. Mr Job Ongaga, who worked with Nyakundi at Voice of Victory, said; “ A neighbour was alarmed by a stench from his house and after consulting the landlord and others, they decided to break in. They found his body on the bed.” The journalist was the first born in a family of seven. Journalists in Kisii condemned the murder in a statement issued by their chairman Joshua Araka. “ While we do not wish to speculate, we believe that detectives have the capacity and ability to unearth those behind this heinous act,” said the statement. They urged that investigations be expedited.   He was last seen before Christmas.