Bangkok-based hotel and resort chain, Dusit International, opened its five-star hotel in Nairobi in 2014, dubbed DusitD2 Nairobi. Last year, DusitD2 Nairobi received global recognition from the World Luxury Hotel Awards after being awarded The Best Luxury Business Hotel 2018 in East Africa. The annual awards ceremony, which was held in Bali, Indonesia, sought to recognise luxury hotels for their world class facilities and service excellence to guests. It won a similar recognition at the World Luxury Hotel Awards in 2017, at a ceremony held in Switzerland. The hotel, which achieved the five-star rating in 2016 from the Tourism Regulatory Authority, is located on a development christened 14 Riverside in the upmarket Lavington estate, Nairobi, owned by the Sanghrajka family, the proprietors of Tile & Carpet Centre. DusitD2 Nairobi is a 100-bed hotel and targets business travellers and local meetings, incentives, conferences, and exhibitions industry. Dusit International, listed on the Stock Exchange of Thailand, is among the global hotel chains which have set up shop in Kenya and witnessed increased demand for accommodation due to Kenya’s status as the regional hub for many multinationals. Founded in 1948, the group manages more than 25 properties across the world and has over 50 confirmed projects in the pipeline in key destinations such as Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, Indonesia, Kenya, Myanmar, Oman, Philippines, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Thailand, United Arab Emirates and Vietnam. The company also operates the signature Devarana Spa and has a fast-growing education division. The latter, established in 1993, comprises Dusit Thani College, which offers vocational and postgraduate hospitality degrees at campuses in Bangkok and Pattaya and Le Cordon Bleu Dusit Culinary School. The multi-billion-shilling exclusive office block hosts multinationals such as Reckitt Benckiser, Amadeus Global Travel Distribution Ltd, Colgate Palmolive (EA) Limited and Cellulant Kenya Limited. Brighter Monday Limited, Pernod Ricard, Metta, LG, Redhouse PR, Fanisi Capital, Nielsen, Secret Garden Café, Amadiva Salon, Visa, CRA, Deepa Dosaja, I&M Bank are also hosted in the complex situated in the serene neighbourhood behind the University of Nairobi’s Chiromo Campus.   "There was a bomb, there is a lot of gunfire," whispered a man working in the offices.