Embattled Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa has unveiled a four-year development plan aimed at improving the constituency's economy and its people's lives. Top of the agenda is education, Ms Jumwa said, noting she wants residents equipped with the knowledge and skills sought in the job market. EDUCATION The member of parliament reported on Saturday that she had accomplished some of her goals for the education sector. Ms Jumwa cited the building of Malindi's first modern education complex at Sh20 million, a project which saw sub-county education officials relocate from their rental offices. She also mentioned the construction of Shomani Girl’s Model School at Kakuyuni, a project which Deputy President William Ruto launched last year to promote the education of girls in the region. The politician further highlighted bursary awards to needy students and the refurbishing and supply of desks to more than 20 schools so learners are comfortable. TARGET In 2017, Ms Jumwa awarded full scholarships to 180 students who scored 350 marks and above in the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCPE) exams. There was extra funding for those who scored at least 400 arks. “This year, the number of scholarship beneficiaries will hit 500 ... my target is 1.000. No child in Malindi should remain at home due to lack of school fees," she told about 3,000 residents during the unveiling of the development plan for Sai Eden Roc Resort. To improve the standard of education in secondary schools, the MP said more bursaries will be awarded. JUA KALI Ms Jumwa said that this year, plans are underway for the construction of shades for all Jua Kali artisans in Malindi. “The sector has employed many people. We shall begin building the shades in March," she said. The legislator spoke of a new industry in the area, that she said will lead to creation of more jobs for youths and help the ailing tourism sector. She said it will be created will the help of the national government. “This is possible because of the handshake. Malindi must move forward ... We shall also build a grand multipurpose hall before the end of the year for locals to use for meetings and functions such as weddings," she said. BODA-BODA Ms Jumwa, who aspires to succeed Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi in the 2022 elections, also revealed her plans for boda-boda operators. She said the goal is for the sector to expand and the end of harassment by police on claims that they are criminals. On matters land, Ms Jumwa said she allocated Sh3.5 million from the CDF to adjudication and subdivision of the controversial Weru ranch to locals, a move aimed at curbing the squatters problem. The lawmaker further advised religious leaders to form associations through which they can public address tools and tents. Kilifi North MP Owen Baya, who also wants to take over from Governor Kingi, said development must be countywide. “I am happy that you have taken Malindi to another level," he told Ms Jumwa and asked leaders to unite for the sake of the county's transformation.   The NLC carried out land and property evaluation for phase one of the project.