President Uhuru Kenyatta will on Friday close the two-day National Anti-Corruption Conference taking place at the Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi. President Kenyatta went to the meeting accompanied by leaders including Deputy President William Ruto and Orange Democratic Movement leader Raila Odinga. Others were Attorney General Paul Kihara, Chief Justice David Maraga, Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka and representatives from the public and private sectors. Speakers at the meeting gave reports on the vice, discussing subjects including what constitutes corruption and ways in which the public and authorities can cooperate in order to tame it. They also detailed the actions they intend to take, many corruption cases having been brought to light over the years. Organisations facing corruption scandals include the National Youth Service, the National Cereals and Produce Board, the Kenya Pipeline Company, Kenya Power and the National Hospital Insurance Fund. PROMISES The conference took place on the backdrop of Kenya's heightened war against corruption, the President, Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji and Chief Justice David Maraga promising to play their roles. Twalib Mbarak, the new chairman of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, has also promised to work with these parties and the police service to ensure a successful war. During his vetting for the position, he said he will not take orders from anybody to hamper efforts against graft. The war has seen different parties point fingers at each other amid criticism by the public following wastage of public resources and the lack of convictions. On Thursday, the Judiciary was once again on the receiving end for being a stumbling block in the fight against corruption. During the first day of the conference, the multiagency team headed by AG Kihara talked tough, warning those engaging in the vice that they will not enjoy their ill-gotten proceeds. He accused the Judiciary of being a deterrent instead of an enabler in the war. US HELP At the conference, outgoing US ambassador Robert Godec reiterated his country's support for Kenya, noting that, "Corruption is theft from Kenya's people and has long undermined its prosperity." Ambassador Godec noted that support by the United States will be in the form of coordinated systems to end redundancy, sustained awareness campaigns, support at both the county and national levels. He also said the US will work with business communities to ensure they adhere to codes of conduct, help Kenya build capacity, strengthen public financial management systems and elevate partnership with the country. Mr Godec also said the US will continue to help Kenya seize and return stolen assets back to the country for public good. Jersey Island and Switzerland are among countries that have signed deals with Kenya for the recovery of stolen assets.   The Attorney General said all agencies fighting the vice must read on the same page to be successful.