A suspected terrorist accused of making huge withdrawals from M-Pesa had his agent account closed by Safaricom before the Dusit D2 hotel complex attack, a court heard Tuesday. During the hearing of a case in which seven people are charged in connection with the attack that left 21 people dead, defence lawyer Jamal Bake disclosed that Safaricom closed Mr Hassan Abdi Nur's agent account in early January. Without indicating the exact date when the account was closed, Mr Bake said his client had visited Safaricom headquarters thrice seeking an explanation for the closure. However, he said, the suspect was always told that he would be contacted, but he was not until his arrest on January 22 when he went to Safaricom House on Waiyaki Way for the fourth time. Mr Nur is an M-Pesa agent who the Anti-Terrorism Police Unit believes received huge amounts of money through his account meant to facilitate terrorism activities in the country. ATPU already told the court that he received Sh9 million from South Africa, withdrew about Sh5.2 million in a day, and sent it to Somalia. While protesting against the 30 days which ATPU has requested the court to have them detained, Mr Bake insisted his client has not been linked to terrorism. However, the prosecution, through lawyer Duncan Ondimu, urged the court to consider the seriousness of the allegations against the suspects. FACILITATED “Detaining these suspects will facilitate knowing other persons who facilitated the attack, hence the need to pursue all these angles; court should consider what these suspects are likely to face in case of conviction,” said Mr Ondimu. Mr Nur was in court Tuesday alongside Mr Ismael Sadiq Abitham, Mr Ali Khamisi Ali, Mr Abdinoor Maalima Osmail, Mr Abdullahi Muhumed Hassan and Ms Sophia Njoki Mbogo. Even though seven others have been detained for 30 days, and a woman who procured insurance covers for two vehicles used by the attackers is being held for 15 days, this lot, unlike the rest, has protested against their detention. Ms Mbogo told the court that Safaricom authorised withdrawals made by Mr Nur. Meanwhile, Mr Osmail, who has been accused of withdrawing Sh100 million from M-Pesa, said the monies were from different tills from his M-Pesa business.   Anti-terror police unit accuse suspects of facilitating transactions that financed Dusit attack