Kenya Commercial Bank edged champions Gor Mahia 1-0 in a hot tempered SportPesa Premier League clash at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos on Sunday. Kennedy Owino capitalised on Gor's defensive lapse to open the score on 22nd minute. The Bankers had threatened in the 18th minute through Ezekiel odera whose header from a Bolton Omwenga left footed cross went wide. The game was temporarily stopped on 89 minutes after a section of angry fans started hurling objects on the field of play in protest of a throw in awarded in KCB favour. Harun Shakava was forced to head out a teasing Dennis Ng'ang'a free kick from the right flank after Joash Onyango fouled Odera thus opening referee Raymond Omondi's book with a yellow card. Philemon Otieno switched flanks to find Francis Kahata whose weighted cross on was headed out by an unmarked Francis Mustafa from close range much to a Gor fans' chagrin. Two minutes later KCB went ahead through Owino who left Onyango on the floor before sending in a low shot to the far post with Boniface Oluoch left hapless. The Bankers toyed with Gor backline forcing coach Hassan Oktay to an early substitution. The Turkish Cypriot pulled out Joachim Oluoch, who had started in the right back position, for Ugandan Erisa Ssekisambu as Philemon Otieno moved back to his accustomed right back position. Mustafa replaced Otieno in central midfield with Ssekisambu joining attack. Ssekisambu’s speed caused jitters in KCB defence as Gor launched a series of attacks in the final quarter before the break. KCB captain Mike Kibwage cleared off the line Boniface Omondi attempt on 34 minutes after KCB custodian Zamu Adisa had been beaten. Four minutes after resumption, Jacques Tuyisenge unleashed a right footed shot but Adisa parried out for a fruitless corner. Adisa gathered Kahata's curled in free kick from the right flank after Dennis Ng'ang'a had brought down Tuyisenge on 63rd minute. Benson Amianda, who rested Odera on 57 minutes, thought to have doubled the lead on 72 minutes but his ferocious right footed stunner was rightfully called for offside by second assistant referee Oliver Odhiambo. Amianda had been put through on goal by Estone Esiye who had broken on a counter. With four minutes to the final whistle, KCB coach Frank Ouna introduced Collins Wendo for Esiye as the Bankers resorted to sitting at the back with Gor launching fruitless raids.   KCB were leading by a solitary goal.