Kisumu AllStars Saturday edged 10-man Shabana 2-1 in a National Super League (NSL) match at Moi Stadium in Kisumu. Dennis Oalo sealed victory for the hosts from the spot in the 81st minute after Dismas Amunga was fouled inside the box by Joseph Omweri. Omweri was later sent off after receiving a second yellow for confronting the referee over the penalty. Oscar Oketch had fired the visitors ahead in the 21st minute before Shadrack Omondi cancelled his effort seven minutes later. AllStars head coach Francis Oduor said he was happy with his side's immediate response after losing to Wazito 2-1 last weekend. "I'm happy with the win because we lost last week and we were looking for a comeback. We played well, therefore I think we deserved the victory," said Oduor. Shabana assistant coach Andrew Ongwae, who wass holding brief for suspended Gilbert Selebwa, blamed officiating once again for the loss. "The game was good, it was balanced until the second half when we started seeing poor calls from the referee. He awarded them a dubious penalty, if we want to change Kenyan football Football Kenya Federation (FKF) should ensure their is good officiating," griped Ongwae. Oketch sent goalkeeper Geoffrey Were the wrong way from the spot in the 21st minute after the centre referee had awarded the visitors a penalty following Gerishon Arabe's dangerous tackle on a red shirt inside the box. Seven minutes later, Omondi bent-in a freekick from the edge of the box past Tom Muthoni, to silence a handful of Shabana supporters who had made the trip to the lakeside city to cheer their team. Shabana suffered a blow at the half hour when Muthoni was taken off the pitch after colliding with an AllStars player. He was replaced by reserve goalkeeper Kennedy Obwanda. Were parried Omweri's cross at the stroke of half time to relieve the host's some pressure before Obwanda denied Amunga on the other end from a well taken freekick on the right. Both teams made early substitutions in the second half with Shabana resting Hadi Hamisi for David Simiyu while Erick Otieno replaced Austine Otieno on the AllStars side. Willis Otenda thought he had put the hosts ahead in the 65th minute from a tight angle after being played through by Arabe on the right, but his finish missed the target narrowly to the chagrin of the home supporters. Ten minutes later, substitute Simiyu had a glorious opportunity to restore Shabana's lead but his hurriedly taken shot flew over the bar. Oalo then gave AllStars the lead with nine minutes left, sending his penalty down the middle past Obwanda. Otenda could have further cushioned his side's lead deep in the extra time but Obwanda did well to deny him.  