For the millionth time, actress Catherine Kamau ‘Cate’ has downplayed rumours that she is pregnant. The thespian who made her debut in the local TV show ‘Mother in Law’ recently shared a video of her dancing that got several fans talking about her belly that appeared to be bulging. Many had their conclusions that she could be pregnant. However, the actress who time and again has dismissed such claims was at it once more, telling the fans that she wasn’t pregnant but had added weight. “Can you all relax I’m not pregnant just fat at the moment,” she responded. Cate wedded her husband former Tahidi High actor now producer Philip Karanja last year at a colourful traditional wedding after dating for a couple of years. Since then fans have been yearning to see her bare him a child. Cate is already a mother of a boy whom she conceived when she was 19.   Lupita in, Lupita out Kenyan Hollywood actress Lupita Nyong’o yet again secretly flew into the country and left without being noticed. The Oscar Award winning A-star whose acting career has been on the rise since bursting into the scene in 2011, is reported to have sneaked into the country to spend Christmas holiday with her family in the Ratta Village, Kisumu county. She then left in the same manner she came for United States where she is currently based on the New Year. According to a close source from Kisumu County where Lupita’s father Professor Anyang Nyong is the Governor, the 35-year-old wanted to enjoy her Christmas Eve out of the public glare and away from the media attention. This wasn’t the first time Lupita sneaked into the country as she has now made it a habit. In 2015 she arrived quietly to attend her younger sister Esperanza’s wedding held in Great Rift Valley Lodge in Naivasha. A year later she would pull a similar stunt arriving in the same fashion yet again to attend to her cousin Kwame Nyong’o’s wedding. The star is now back in US gearing up towards the premier of her first Horror movie Us set to hit the screens in March.    I want divorce, Usher tells court American RnB star Usher Raymond has filed for divorce from her estranged wife of three years, Grace Miguel, nine months after confirming their split. According to reports, the singer filed for the divorce in a court in Georgia. Usher, 40, and Grace, who is nine years older, married in 2015 after an affair which developed from their manager-artiste working relationship. Their union hit rock bottom in March when they decided to separate, issuing a joint statement informing their fans of their decision. “After much thought and consideration we have mutually decided to separate as a couple. We remain deeply connected loving friends...” part of the statement read. The two are reported to have decided to call it quits after Usher declined to have a baby with Miguel. Usher and Miguel started dating in 2009 after the singer divorced his previous wife Tameka Foster. Foster was his former stylist and together they have two sons.  Manager says Harmonize is too indisciplined for his liking One of the top Bongo flava talent managers, Joel Vincent Joseph, popularly known as Mr Puaz, has parted ways with Diamond Platinumz and WCB Wasafi after falling apart with his client musician Harmonize. Reports from several Tanzanian media publications claimed that Mr Puaz parted ways with Harmonize after failing to agree on contract terms, with claims that the manager feels exploited after engineering the musician’s rise of fortune. But speaking to Showbuzz, Mr Puaz cleared the air stating that he could no longer work with Harmonize due to his bad attitude and arrogance he developed following recent success. “The young man is talented but we couldn’t continue working because the arrogance, bad attitude and tendency of degrading me he has developed of late. After the concert in Mombasa I informed his boss Diamond Platinumz that I couldn’t keep up,” Mr Puaz noted. The manager was conspicuously missing during the Wasafi Festival held at Uhuru Gardens last Monday, during a concert in which Harmonize angered fans when he called Kenyans poor and went on to disrespectfully throw the Kenyan flag to the ground. Previously Mr Puaz managed one of Tanzanian top rapper Shetta before decamping to Wasafi facilitating the signing up of Harmoinze as the label’s first signed artiste.  Sister Una left after heart attack, Morgan Heritage say about band member Geammy award winning reggae band Morgan Heritage has revealed why it’s only female member Una ditched the group. Speaking in Nairobi, lead vocalist Peetah disclosed that Una, their only sister and former member of the band left after suffering a heart attack. “Sister Una is retired. In 2015 while we were on a tour she suffered a heart attack and decided to leave,” Peetah revealed. Morgan Heritage, who last Monday performed at the Wasafi Festival at Uhuru Gardens, Nairobi, currently comprises of four brothers. Initially and for many years the band which was formed in 1994, was made up of five siblings; Peetah, Gramps (Vocalist and Keyboard), Mojo (Drums), Una (Keyboard) and Nakamyah (Guitars). The 46-year-old Una suffered the heart attack while Morgan heritage was on in the United States and was hospitalised for seven days. It was reported that she was suffering from a pre-existing thyroid disease which caused the cardiac arrest.   He is facing a six month jail term for keeping a monkey as a pet.