From perplexing technological innovations to climate change, from discussions on the world economy and digital ethics and privacy rights, 2019 is expected to be an exciting year on the news front. Predictably, the controversy around US President Donald Trump’s administration will feature again in the newsreel. Below are subjects expected to drive headlines and to keep newsrooms abuzz around the world this year. DIGITAL PRIVACY The debate on digital ethics, privacy and protection of identities on the digital space will rage on in 2019. It was revealed in 2018 that the British political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica had unprocedurally obtained data from more than 50 million users, triggering a stormy backlash. This data was later used to influence decisions in electoral processes namely the British referendum on Brexit and in the Kenyan, Nigerian and US polls. Facebook may have deleted this information and even apologised, but users are increasingly becoming aware of the value of their private information. According to global research firm Gartner, companies that handle personal data should move away from asking, “Are we secure?” to now asking “Are we doing the right thing?” while striving to build the trust of their clients. “Service providers who handle personal and sensitive business data must gain and maintain the trust of their customers,” says Shawn Mills, an American technology entrepreneur and president of Green House Data. BREXIT After a three-year debacle, the UK must exit the European Union this year. March 29 is the Brexit date and there is already excitement as the D-Day looms. It is, however, still not clear whether or not Prime Minister Theresa May will secure a proper deal for the British people. Some quarters in Britain already feel that Brexit was a socioeconomic and political gaffe. The next couple of weeks are likely to be the busiest in Ms May’s administration, as she traverses between London and Brussels. Deal or no deal, the effects of the aftermath of the exit will be felt throughout 2019 and for years to come. KHASHOGGI The high-profile trial of 11 people suspected to have killed Washington Post contributor Jamal Khashoggi last year started Thursday in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Khashoggi, 59, was killed and his body dismembered inside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, Turkey in October. The brutal murder tore apart Riyadh’s relations with her allies, including the US, UK and France. CLIMATE CHANGE Heatwaves in Europe, shattering wildfires in America, typhoons in East Asia and horrific tsunami and an earthquake in Indonesia, 2018 witnessed the real fury of Mother Nature. The world also saw the devastating consequences of plastic pollution on world seas and oceans. The UN conference on climate in Poland last year also revealed that minimal attention had been paid to scientists’ warnings on climate change. It is expected that climate change debate will continue as stakeholders seek to promote awareness on the risks of climate change. TECHNOLOGY It is expected that this is the year, when blockchain technology will burst into more popularity and usage after a slight slump and scepticism in 2018. Economic experts project that by 2030, blockchain will be worth about USD 3.1 trillion in business value. Quantum computing, augmented analytics and Artificial Intelligence technology are also expected to take centre-stage and to herald more business models. US POLICY America’s foreign policy has been under acute scrutiny both locally and internationally since Trump’s ascent to power. Not even the firing of Rex Tillerson, the first Secretary of State and his replacement by Mike Pompeo has helped to cool off the chaotic diplomatic strategy that President Trump has so far employed. Trump’s National Security Advisor John Bolton’s fiery demeanour has done little to calm the tempest. His bare-knuckled attack on China and Russia for their “predatory practices in Africa” raised eyebrows and roiled waters in diplomatic circles. RUSSIA, CHINA The recent warm camaraderie between Russia’s Vladimir Putin and China’s Xi Jinping has the world watching in dread. The pair meet with each other more often than with any other world leader, a development that is causing unease the world over. GLOBAL TERRORISM While ISIS stands virtually repressed by the US and its allies, analysts fear that the terror gang is regrouping and could resurface with more sophistications. The potential re-emergence of the group will be closely watched this year.   A message of inevitable doom creates a self-fulfilling prophesy.