The Independent Disciplinary and Complaints Committee (IDCC) will on Tuesday hear AFC Leopards' case on the hooliganism act witnessed during their SportPesa Premier League (SPL) match against Nzoia Sugar at Kenyatta stadium in Machakos three weeks ago. IDCC will hold their judicial hearing at Rachier and Amollo Advocates offices in Nairobi. Suspended club official Timothy Lilumbi and Ian Mukhobi were accused of accosting referee George Mwai in protest of a late equalizer. The club later announced the immediate suspension of Lilumbi as the organizing secretary and Mukhobi for their involvement in the unsavoury melee. As the Kenyan football fraternity was waiting on IDCC verdict, a section of Gor Mahia caused a 26-minute stoppage during their 1-0 defeat to Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) on Sunday at the same venue. A section of unruly K’Ogalo fans threw stones and other objects onto the playing field as they protested a decision by assistant referee with barely a minute remaining on the clock. Police lobbed teargas as they tried to contain the rowdy fans whose senseless acts led to destruction of three vehicles packed within the stadium. KCB team bus had ut’s rear windscreen shattered as well as two Machakos County ambulances that had been hired for the match. Football Kenya Federation (FKF) President Nick Mwendwa has come out strongly and condemned the incidents and promised to stamp out the acts. “We’ve to remove such fellows from the game, due process is being followed on the same by the IDCC,” he said. Kenyan Premier League (KPL) head of technical ervices, safety and security Gilbert Moore Titus (GMT) Ottieno has said that they are reviewing Sunday’s incident and will act once they have received match referee Raymond Omondi’s report. “We shall analyse the report from Machakos before taking necessary action on the culprits,” he said. “From what I heard, my comment would be that such fans be rooted out of the club because they are already causing Gor an unwarranted punishment,” he added. The club’s chief executive Lordvick Aduda has condemned the act calling for calm as they approach a high octane clash against Egyptian giants Zamalek in their opening Group D match of the Caf Confederation Cup at Kasarani stadium on Sunday. “We can’t entertain such uncouth behavior, the perpetrators I believe are known and the police should take action on particularly those who destroyed property,” Aduda quipped. Crowd trouble depleted Gor’s bank accounts with heavy fines imposed on them by the Confederation of African Football (Caf) during their 2-1 loss to Rayon Sports of Rwanda in a continental fixture last season. Ingwe fans also caused a 10-minute stoppage by vandalizing and hurling seats on the pitch in protest of a foul against them during the 2-0 loss in a Mashemeji derby on August 25 at Kasarani stadium. Meanwhile, the Bankers will repair the damages before seeking compensation from Gor through KPL. “There were no major damages at the stadium facility but the recorded ones will be assessed by the host team, KCB FC who will do the repairs,” a source at the stadium, who is not authorized to speak to the media, noted.   KCB were leading by a solitary goal.