Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed has stepped in to end a leadership crisis at the University of Nairobi after appointing four new deputy vice chancellors. Until last week, the positions of Finance, Planning and Development, and that of Academic Affairs were held by acting deputy vice chancellors. Ms Mohamed has now appointed Prof Jama Mohamud to the crucial Finance, Planning and Development docket previously held by Prof Bernard Njoroge. Prof Njoroge was suspended and sacked by the university in 2016 over a leadership row with Vice Chancellor Peter Mbithi after attempts by the council, then chaired by Dr Idle Farah, failed to resolve the dispute. Prof Njoroge had accused Prof Mbithi of overstepping his mandate by seeking to control the finances at the institution, which was his area of jurisdiction. Since then, the position has been held by Students Affairs deputy vice-chancellor Prof Isaac Mbeche. Prof Mbeche attended interviews to become the substantive DCV for Finance, Planning and Development. Prof Mohamud has been the deputy principal of the College of Humanities and Social Sciences. Prof Mbeche was among three candidates whose names were forwarded to Ms Amina. According to protocol, the University Council has to interview and recommend three names from which the CS picks one. The CS can select any of the three for each position considering merit, gender and regional balancing. In the appointments, Prof William Ogara, who was the director for international linkages, has been appointed to the newly created DVC position of Human Resource. The university’s Graduate School director Prof Lydia Njenga was appointed to be the DVC for Research, Production and Extension. Prof Julius Ogeng’o who has been acting DVC for Academic Affairs has been appointed to the position on a substantive capacity. The position had remained vacant following wrangles that saw the High Court quash several appointments that were made by then Education cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi. Justice George Odunga stopped the appointments of Mr Timothy Mwangi Kiruhi, Mr Meshack Kidenda, Mr Victoria Otieno, Mr Mahat Somane, Mr Peter Maangi Mitiambo and Ms Jane Wanjiru Michuki after it emerged that they were appointed without following the law.   Wrangles between the VC and his deputy have spilled into the public domain.