The Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) has protested against violence towards their members saying it has reached an alarming rate. It has written to Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed and the Teachers Service Commission (TSC), asking them to expeditiously step in and protect teachers in the while country. The union has also warned that unless the issue is addressed, teachers will hold nationwide demonstrations to protest. Secretary-General Wilson Sossion noted that in the last three years, hundreds of teachers have been subjected to harrowing experiences by learners, and that their parents and guardians have joined them in waging the attacks for flimsy reasons. “Some teachers have sustained serious injuries inflicted by learners and parents leaving these teachers a traumatised lot, such that they cannot continue discharging  their duties effectively,” he said in the letter to Ms Mohamed, dated January 28. DEEP SCARS He said the recent killing of Peter Omare, of Hopewell Secondary School in Nakuru, deeply scared the teaching force. “Cases of teacher assault in the recent past have also been reported at Chalbi High School in Marsabit, Kirimon Primary in Samburu, Maeto Primary in Kuria West, Matioli Primary in Kakamega East, Toniok Girls' Secondary in Eldama ravine, Arabia Secondary in Mandera and Qarsa Primary in Wajir ,” said Mr Sossion. He listed others as Khorof Primary, Khorof secondary, Wajir Bor, Riba, Sarman, Kutulo, Tarbaj, Itenyi Primary in Kakamega and Kanyadhiang Primary. “In all these cases, teachers met afflictions and humiliation while attempting to dispense discipline to learners. If students can plan and execute the murder of their teacher, it means no teacher is safe in the school environment,” said Mr Sossion. FAILURE The Knut boss further said the wave of violence on teachers and cases of arson in schools were a major concern as they hamper the successful and sustained delivery of quality education. “In fact, this is a clear indicator of system failure. Besides having a dysfunctional system, do we really have in place a functioning quality assurance and standards system?” Kenya Secondary School Heads Association chairman Kahi Indimuli regretted that "when teachers are assaulted on injured, no one bothers to speak about it".   Student Franklin Ngetich will remain in police custody until February 1.