Kenyans ushered the new year in style as a celebratory wave swept across the country, from the capital city to the counties. In Nairobi County, many trooped to churches to offer thanksgiving while others attended several concerts planned in the city or entertained themselves in clubs.   Thousands attended Churchill's comedy show at Garden City Mall and Wasafi Festival at Uhuru Gardens, whose main attraction was the Tanzanian Bongo star Diamond Platnumz.   In Mombasa County, hundreds of revellers flocked different clubs to usher in the New Year. Bongo Star Ali Kiba and Kenyan boy band Sauti Sol performed at the NRG Wave Showdown concert which also featured artists Fena Gitu and Gilad. Security was tight with police guarding the venue and revellers going through several security checks. Many hotels reported an increased business buoyed by a surge in domestic and international tourists. Travellers Beach Hotel sponsored fireworks display while Sauti sol band also performed at the Sarova Whitesands Hotel. Kenya Bay Beach Hotel director Jaswinder Kalsi said the festivities led to an influx of domestic tourists. Hotels in Mombasa, Diani, Malindi and Watamu also recorded an increased number of guests. Residents flocked to Jomo Kenyatta public beach and broke into jubilant celebrations as the fireworks brightened the skies.   In Nyandarua County, it was payback time for investors in the hospitality industry who invested and planned well in readiness for the New Year celebrations.   At Lake Ol Bolosat Resort Park and Lodge in Ol Joro Orok Constituency, the manager Mr David Maina said it took them two months to plan for the event.   There was an interdenominational church service led by ACK priest Francis Gicheha in the main hall flooded with worshipers, hundreds of revellers in the restaurants, some following national events on television while others danced the night away.“It has taken us two months of research and planning. We wanted everyone to have and enjoy their taste. We hired additional highly-trained staff. We have a children section with a dedicated staff,” said the manager. Reporting by Eunice Murathe, Francis Mureithi and Joel Muinde.   Global partying kicked off on Sydney's waterfront with the Australian city's biggest-ever fireworks display.