SportPesa Premier League leaders Mathare United entertain champions Gor Mahia in a high-billed round six fixture on Sunday at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani. The 2009 champions Sofapaka welcome on form Tusker in the only Saturday encounter at Kenyatta stadium in Machakos. While Batoto ba Mungu coach Medo Melis will be seeking a return to winning ways after settling for a 1-1 draw away to Western Stima last weekend, Robert Matano-coached Tusker have been brewing positive results in the last three games. Sofapaka is however a boggy side for Tusker, who’ve three wins in 22 meetings against the former. Nine of the encounters have ended in a draw. Tusker, under Matano, edged Sofapaka 2-1 in the second leg of last season after going down 5-4 in the first leg March last year. All attention will shift to Sunday’s action between the Slum Boys and K’Ogalo at Kasarani stadium. This fixture has recently evoked emotions among fans from both teams with majority awe-inspired thanks to the salivating action witnessed on the pitch. Mathare have beaten Gor twice and drawn in as many games in the last five meetings. Gor last beat the 2008 champions 2-1 in October 2016 at the same venue. Eight goals were netted last season after a captivating 2-2 draw in both legs. Overall, Gor has overcome Mathare on eight occasions with nine ties ending in a draw in the last 21 games. Sunday's clash presents Mathare, who are seven points ahead of ninth-placed Gor, with a clear chance of showing their intention to charge for the title. Gor, who bounced back with a 2-0 win over Chemelil Sugar in midweek, will be aiming to reduce the gap between them and Francis Kimanzi’s boys. “We know they are top of the league now therefore have planned well for them,” said Gor coach Hassan Oktay, whose side play Posta Rangers in Kisumu next Wednesday in a rescheduled tie. Elsewhere, embattled Kenya Commercial Bank face Kariobangi Sharks in Machakos searching for their first victory this season. The bankers, who recruited heavily in preseason, have struggled to get their footing back into the top flight after three seasons in the cold garnering just a point in the first five matches. WEEKEND FIXTURES (All matches kick off at 3pm unless stated) Saturday Sofapaka v Tusker (Kenyatta stadium, Machakos) Sunday Vihiga United v Mount Kenya United (Bukhungu stadium, 1pm) Kakamega Homeboyz v Posta Rangers (Bukhungu stadium, 3.15pm) KCB v Kariobangi Sharks (Kenyatta stadium, Machakos 2pm) AFC Leopards v Nzoia Sugar (Kenyatta stadium, Machakos 4.15pm) Mathare United v Gor Mahia (MISC Kasarani) Bandari v Sony Sugar (Mbaraki Sports club) Chemelil Sugar v Western Stima (Chemelil Sports Complex) Ulinzi Stars v Zoo Kericho (Afraha stadium, Nakuru)  