Allan Wanga was on target as Kakamega Homeboyz and Zoo played to a 1-1 draw in a SportPesa Premier League match at Bukhungu Stadium, Kakamega on Saturday. The hosts were forced to rally from behind to get a share of the spoils after Newton Ondari scored an early goal for Zoo. Zoo Coach Sammy Okoth hailed his charges for picking a point on the road. "Picking a point at Bukhungu is a plus because the game was tough. Homeboyz is a good team and both teams played well," said Okoth. Zoo grabbed the lead after one minute of play when Ondari fired a low shot past a hapless Gabriel Andika. Homeboyz responded immediately with two successive attacks - Daniel Sakari's one touch from a throw-in failing to find the target, before Maxwell Ravel failed to connect to Sakari's dangerous cross in the box. The hosts dictated the early exchanges and looked likely to grab an equaliser. But they survived a scare at the quarter hour mark when Benard Odhiambo missed the target narrowly with an adventurous effort from range after spotting Andika well off his line. Homeboyz had an opportunity to restore parity four minutes later when Zoo players failed to clear a delivery from the left but Luke Namanda, unmarked, shot wide. Ravel's overhead finish in the box from Benjamin Oketch came off the woodwork, before Kenyan international Wanga cancelled Ondari's goal with a 34th minute strike. Wanga picked his spot, bottom left to beat Elung'at with a neat finish from a one-on-one situation. Paul Nkata's charges almost took the lead a minute later but Elungat parried Ravel's glancing header for a fruitless corner. Homeboys continued to dictate the second half and had two early chances but they failed to convert. Okoth was forced to make a change after Kevin Omondi limped out of play, his position being taken by Brian Asewe. Ondari sent a cross across the face of goal in the 70th minute which did not get any contact before Homeboyz survived another scare moments later when Asewe's header from a corner hit the crossbar. Zoo had another opportunity to kill the game ten minutes later but substitute Allan Odhiambo was dispossessed before he could shoot. The visitors were reduced to ten men in stoppage time when Danson Chetambe was sent off for foul language after being booked for a reckless tackle.  