Former Njoro member of parliament Joseph Kiuna has asked a court to block his impending arrest over incitement for the remarks he issued last week after a man was killed in Likia. Mr Kiuna has applied for anticipatory bail to prevent police from arresting him pending investigations into allegations that he incited ethnic violence. FEAR The immediate former legislator filed his case under a certificate of urgency at the Nakuru High Court before Justice Joel Ngugi. He has sued the inspector general of police, the director of criminal investigations and the director of public prosecutions. Through Mirugi Kariuki & Company advocates, Mr Kiuna claims he learnt on social media on January 11 that police intended to arrest him and that he had the option of presenting himself at the nearest station. The court heard that he is apprehensive that police intend to detain him just to humiliate or make him suffer. Mr Kiuna further noted that he was surprised when he was informed that more than 40 police officers were looking for him. “Pending the hearing and determination of this suit, I pray that this court grants the applicant anticipatory bail and the respondents be ordered not to detain the applicant pending investigations and preference of any charges in court relating to alleged inflammatory remarks after the killing of a young man in Njoro on Thursday,” his lawyers said. OUTCRY The politician's decision to move to court came amid public outcry over footage of him addressing residents of Likia, where the man was brutally killed last Thursday while tracking stolen sheep. Mr Kiuna is accused of inciting two communities living in the area to turn against each other. He recorded a statement on January 10 at the Njoro DCIO after police summoned him. Mr Kiuna now says he is ready and willing to face police for investigations as long as they are not used to abuse his rights. The court certified the matter as urgent and directed him to serve the respondents with the documents and appear for an inter-parties hearing on Tuesday.   Nakuru town priest says MPs were wrong to criticise President, warns utterances likely to incite public.