Mt Kenya leaders on Saturday clashed over MP Moses Kuria’s remarks that the Jubilee administration has neglected the region even as they piled pressure on President Uhuru Kenyatta to retain Mr Mwangi Kiunjuri in his Cabinet in wake of reshuffle reports. The politicians, who were attending a burial in Othaya, differed on whether Gatundu South MP Kuria made a mistake in calling out the Head of State demanding more development projects in the region. Mr Kiunjuri, who was one of the leaders present, accused Mt Kenya leaders of being ungrateful for the projects they have received as a region since President Kenyatta took office in 2013. “Development is continuous and there is no end because a government cannot accomplish everything. Before speaking about what a leader has not done, look at what has been done,” Mr Kiunjuri said. 'UNGRATEFUL LEADERS' He cited the completion of various projects launched by former President Mwai Kibaki and several others still ongoing. Mr Kiunjuri, said he will continue to support Mr Kenyatta even if he loses his job in a looming Cabinet reshuffle. “I will continue talking about Uhuru’s achievements whether I am in the Cabinet or not, even if there is a reshuffle. I do not want to attack any leader but actions speak more than words,” he said. Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga, Nyeri Woman Representative Rahab Mukami and Nyeri County Assembly Speaker John Kaguchia also accused a section of Central Kenya leaders of disrespecting the Presidency by claiming that Mr Kenyatta had abandoned the region. Mr Kahiga criticised leaders who were addressing the President through the media, warning them that it will not yield fruit. “The President is accessible in State House and the doors are open to leaders. When Nyeri leaders came together and met with the President, he addressed our needs so let leaders follow the right structures,” the governor said. 'LEADERS' RESPONSIBILITY' But Embakasi Central MP Benjamin Gathiru and Othaya MP Gichuki Mugambi supported Mr Kuria, saying it was his responsibility to demand projects. Mr Gathiru asked the President to retain Mr Kiunjuri in the Agriculture docket, saying the Cabinet secretary has not been linked to the fraudulent payments at the National Cereals and Produce Board. “Kiunjuri was not involved in the maize scam because he was not the minister at the time of the theft of public funds [occurred], but now everyone wants to pin everything on him. We want him to remain in that docket,” he said. Mr Mugambi took issue with politicians who were attacking the Gatundu South MP, noting that every leader has a right to talk about the plight of his people. “Who will talk about the issues facing the voters if not the leaders? No one should be stopped from expressing their views…they are paid to do that,” he said.   Ms Waruguru said Mr Kuria's views should be respected.