Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko on Friday reshuffled his Cabinet again, retaining only half of his earlier members while bringing in new faces. The reshuffle came after the resignation of Education executive Janet Ouko on Monday leaving Governor Sonko with only five county executive committee members. Speaking in Kilifi, the governor said some have retained their dockets, others have been moved and some elevated. Mr Charles Kerich has been retained in the Lands, Urban Renewal and Housing docket, a position he has been holding since the last reshuffle in July 2018. LAXITY Mr Kerich has also been acting as Health Services executive after the suspension of Ms Veska Kangogo in September 2018. The post has now been given to Dr Stella Bosire Otieno, who until her appointment was Kiambu Hospital Medical Superintendent. The Health docket was substantively held by Mr Hitan Majevdia before his suspension in August 2018 after being accused of laxity. The Roads, Infrastructure and Transport docket has been retained by Mr Mohamed Dagane. But Mr Newton Munene, who was leading the Trade docket, is now in charge of ICT and E-government. Mr Munene is taking over from Ms Emmah Muthoni who was also relieved off her duties last year. PROMOTION Mr Larry Wambua moves from the Environment to Water and Agriculture department while Mr Allan Igambi takes over the Trade, Tourism and Cooperatives docket. He was in charge of Finance and Economic Planning. Mr Igambi’s previous post is now under Winfred Kathangu, who was the Economic Planning chief officer. Education chief officer Lucia Mulwa has also been promoted to the Education, Youth, Gender and Sports docket. Acting County Secretary Pauline Kahiga, who assumed the position after the suspension of Mr Peter Kariuki in September last year, will now be the new Devolution and Public Service Management executive. She replaces Ms Kangogo. Ms Sanjeev Kaur Sonia Birdi has been given the Environment department. Ms Birdi is a former United Republican Party (URP) nominated legislator. "The names of the fresh nominees who had never been vetted by the Assembly will be forwarded for the same," Mr Sonko said.   Janet Muthoni-Ouko says she will pursue other interests.