Following the terrorist attack at the 14 Riverside Drive on Tuesday, the world has shown solidarity with Kenya, promising help. The United States, Britain, and China were among the first countries to send in their support messages following the attack that saw terrorists — believed to be four of them, heavily armed—storm in the 14 Riverside Drive building complex, which has, among others, the upmarket DusitD2 Hotel. Outgoing US Ambassador to Kenya Robert Godec said that the mission was in close communication with Kenyan authorities. “We commend the courage of the Kenyan security services actively working to end the attack,” Mr Godec tweeted. “The United States condemns in the strongest terms the terrible attack at the DusitD2 Hotel complex in Nairobi. We offer our deepest condolences to those who have been affected by this horrifying violence.” 'HORRIFIC ATTACK' British High Commissioner Nic Hailey, on the other hand, last evening promised that “the high commission team in Kenya will be working through the night to support the Kenyan authorities as they respond to this horrific attack.” “I have spoken to President Kenyatta to assure him of the UK’s strong solidarity with Kenya on this day.” On Wednesday morning, the British High Commission said it will remain closed “while we respond to the incident.” The embassy asked its citizens to turn their mobile phone devices on silent, “and do not put your location on social media.” MEETINGS POSTPONED The Chinese Embassy, in its message of support, said they “highly appreciates the swift response by the Kenyan security agencies.” “We will stand firm with the Kenyan and Kenyan people in their fight against terrorism,” the Chinese embassy said. The United Nations, whose Secretary-General Antonio Guterres condemned the attack, Wednesday morning postponed meetings in Nairobi. The UN Environment said its press conference on the Clean Seas-Flipflopi expedition that was scheduled for Thursday, January 17, 2019 at the Nairobi Intercontinental hotel had been postponed until a later date. Meanwhile, Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma has been in constant touch with ambassadors and heads of missions on the operation at the 14 Riverside Drive, and to coordinate any help being offered by those foreign countries.   Security officers' advance comes after at least 50 people rescued from building on Wednesday morning.