When Millicent Museve’s parents were involved in an accident in 2014, she and her four siblings’ lives took a turn for the worse. Her father died on the spot and her mother injured her arm, making it difficult for her to work and fend for her family. “Our lives were already hard, but after the accident, things worsened. It was so hard to raise school fees for my primary education. I worked hard with a dream to make life better for my family,” Millicent said yesterday. DISBELIEF She scored 400 out of a possible 500 marks in last year’s KCPE. She, therefore, easily secured a school, Lugulu Girls, but the situation at home was standing in her way, but that was before she secured a scholarship from the Equity Foundation. Ezekiel Morinke, from Narok County, is another bright student who received the scholarship. He is the second of seven children and his mother, his only parent, ekes a living making and selling Maasai ornaments. The young man has a dream to be a neurosurgeon. However, his poor mother is not able to take him to school, despite the fact that he performed well in last year’s KCPE examination. “My father left us when we were very young and that was the last we ever saw of him. Mum has been taking care of us the best she can. Sometimes she does housework for people, sometimes she tends peoples’ farms, but it is not easy for her,” Kelvin Mburu, another recipient described his life. The first of four children, Kelvin and his family share a single-room mud-walled house in Murang’a. He scored 357 marks in last year’s KCPE, a feat he did not think he would achieve due to his situation. Esther Wamaitha, 14, from Nyandarua County, still cannot believe that she managed to score 387 and was called to Kipsigis Girls High School. During an interview with the Saturday Nation, she was overcome with joy and disbelief that her life would change for the better, thanks to the scholarship. WORTHINESS Her parents were not able to raise her school fees, but she is optimistic that she will use the opportunity to go to school to better her family. The four are among the 1,000 needy students who would have failed to pursue their dreams had they not secured the Equity Foundation's Wings to Fly scholarship. The students applied, were interviewed and subjected to a home visit to ascertain their neediness and worthiness for the scholarship. The award caters for their tuition fees, uniforms and books for all the four years of secondary school. The scholarship was commissioned yesterday at Kenyatta University and this was the tenth batch of students to receive the financial help that they require to complete their secondary school education. The initiative started in 2010, and to date, 16,168 students have benefited from the scholarship programme over the years Some 8,062 beneficiaries have joined universities after completing their secondary school while 2,000 have join Technical and Vocational Education Training (TVET) institutions. The 2015-2016 Kenya Integrated Household Budget Survey shows that 10 per cent of school age children aged in Kenya are not in school, approximately 1.5 million children. The main reason for this is poverty, which prevents them from achieving their dreams.   The programme ensures top performing children from poor families get secondary school education.