The news that some 23 counties are facing hunger and starvation due to poor rainfall is an indictment of our failure to tackle a perennial national problem. Or better still, it’s a damning mockery of the progress the country has made in most spheres in more than 50 years of independence. Here is a country that has done well in various aspects of development, but whose reliance on rain-fed agriculture is an impediment to the realisation of food security. This sad state of affairs is unacceptable for a country that has two solid rainy seasons every year. Only several months ago, some parts of the country were awash with excess water that just flowed to waste, leaving in its wake, some deaths and a trail of destruction. The most poignant indication of the woeful management of our water resources is that in the times when we have good rains, most of the water just runs to waste. It is annoying because it is nothing new, and the fact there are elaborate plans and policies on rain water harvesting and boosting irrigation. Unfortunately, the implementation has been rather poor. Now, the National Drought Management Authority is warning thousands of Kenyans are facing starvation in nearly half of the 47 counties, and only several weeks after the short rains ended. The authority has, in fact, issued a drought alert for seven counties.  This is a story that plays out year after year, and there is no prize for guessing that the affected counties are same ones in the arid and semi-arid zones. Our people must not forever be left under the mercy of unpredictable weather. There is a need to review and revamp irrigation programmes and enhance rainwater harvesting nationally by establishing dams and also enabling farmers to play a role in enhancing their own water needs sufficiency. Large-scale government irrigation schemes have been a huge disappointment. One way to get around this setback is probably to organise farmers into small groups and fund them to set up small-scale irrigation projects.  