The appointment of eight top police officers designated as regional commanders marks the first step in the much-talked about reforms that began last year. The National Police Service is being restructured and part of the undertaking is to consolidate positions and streamline the chain of command. Last year, President Uhuru Kenyatta outlined several initiatives to change the structure, organisation, operations and kitting of the service. Various divisions that existed independently — such as Administration Police Service, Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Kenya Police Service — are to be merged and put under the Inspector-General of Police at the national level and specific officers at the regional, county and sub-county levels. Reforming the police service is pivotal to enhanced enforcement of law and order. SERVICE Several attempts have been made in the past to give the police service a fresh shine by recreating its image and functionalities. A key milestone was at the constitutional level, where what was used to be a “police force” was renamed the National Police Service to mark a major departure. That henceforth it would be a service institution, not a “force”, which, for various reasons, was associated with brutality and insensitivity. This latest attempt is meant to push the frontiers and truly give the institution a better image. That is what Kenyans aspire for. Unfortunately, evidence indicates that all reform programmes are cosmetic. Hardly do they tackle the intractable challenges afflicting the agency. BRUTALITY Thus far, the police service is characterised by brute force, corruption, inefficiencies and irrationalities. Ordinary citizens fear police more than petty criminals, which is quite absurd. It is for these reasons that the service perennially takes the dubious distinction of the most corrupt institution. Conceivably, there are reasons why police officers behave the way they do. Despite concerted efforts, the training is oriented towards the use of force and less of humane approaches. Their terms and conditions of service are wanting and living conditions horrible. TRAINING Resources and equipment for work are inefficient, rendering them unable to deliver quality service. Not surprisingly, the police routinely seek out favours from individuals or communities in terms of facilitation to do their work, compromising them. We acknowledge the steps being made to reorient the service. Structural and organisational changes are vital. However, much more is required. Far deeper changes are necessary to transform the way the police service operates. Training must shift dramatically to prioritise human and community relations, and strong ethics instilled and enforced, so that the institution can win the confidence of the public. Tied to this is proper resource allocation and provision to empower the officers to deliver.  