Two women basketball teams risk being kicked out of the Kenya Basketball Federation-organized league after failing to pay league fees for the past two seasons. The two clubs, Western Delight of the KBF Women Premier League and KBF Women Division One outfit Kisumu Lady Bucks, failed to remit Sh90,000 each with the national office in Nairobi. According to KBF Competitions Secretary Joseph Amoko, the amount has accrued over two seasons - the 2017/18 and 2018 seasons in which both teams were required to pay a uniform fee of Sh45,000 per season. “It is mandatory for teams featuring in the KBF events to comply with the rules and regulations governing the federation. Failure to do so attracts severe punishment,” said Amoko. Amoko said officials of the two clubs approached him in both seasons and requested to participate in their respective leagues before paying. They promised to pay later as they were experiencing financial difficulties. “The matter was tabled to the management of KBF which allowed both teams to continue featuring in their respective Leagues on condition that they settle the league fees once they get the money,” he said. Amoko noted that the federation uses the league fees to settle recurrent expenses such as staff salaries, referees allowances, hiring venues for league matches and other logistics. The veteran administrator said that both teams have until February 28 to clear the arrears. “If they don’t do so, they will forfeit their places in their respective leagues to other teams for flouting KBF rules,” he added noting that this will be done promptly since 2019 season tips off on March 16. Reached for comment, Western Delight chairman/coach Donald Liru said they used the money in question to pay referees and book venues for their home matches. “The money was not remitted to KBF national office since we used it on KBF related activities,” said Liru, who doubles up as the KBF second vice chairman in charge of youth. At the same time, Amoko has announced the promotion of African Nazarene University (ANU) and Dynamites from the University of Nairobi (UoN) to the Women Premier League. Dynamite won the Division One League last season, while ANU emerged as runners up. The two teams replace Masaku Sparks and Co-operative Bank. While Masaku Sparks were demoted for having finished bottom of the league standings, Co-operative Bank exited the league after their sponsors Co-operative Bank stopped funding the team.  