Police in Eldoret on Thursday unearthed a vehicle theft syndicate where criminals steal cars then dismantle them before selling spare parts to unsuspecting Kenyans. Officers led by Eldoret West police boss Zachariah Bittok recovered seven stolen vehicles parked in a compound in Kiambaa, motor vehicles documents, number plates including those from Uganda. The police were tipped-off by members of the public about suspicious activities at the home of one of the suspect. “We have launched investigations into the syndicate. We have reliable leads which is likely to help us to arresting this particular suspect,” the police boss said. Mr Bittok noted that the town had witnessed a rise in the number of cases of theft of vehicles and urged members of the public to be vigilant and report such cases to the police for action. “Although, we have isolated cases but going by recent statistics we have noticed an upward rise in the spate of robberies and theft of motor vehicles where these vehicles are disappearing from the yards,” he added. Patrick Mwangi, a driver with 2NK Sacco, narrated how he became victim of brazen criminals after his assigned 14-seater matatu was stolen from a petrol station where he had parked in Eldoret town last October. At the yard, some of the parts of the stolen vehicle were recovered including number plates, three tires and a jerk. “I had parked at the station at 6pm but at 7.45pm I was called by a private security guard that my vehicle had been stolen and he doesn’t know who stole it. I immediately called Central Police Station to report the incident,” he said. He added that the theft left him jobless and now struggles to fend for his family. Last month, Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdi Hassan warned that there were rise in the criminal gangs and warned that security personnel would take stern action against them. “We have realised any crime in this county has been associated with boda boda and we banned operators from operating beyond 11pm untill 5am. Most of the operators must be registered with my office and the county government,” he added.  