Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri on Tuesday led a peaceful demonstration in Nakuru town in protest against President Uhuru Kenyatta’s dismissal of politicians saying he has ignored the Mt Kenya region. The member of parliament led youths in a march on Kenyatta Avenue as they shouted "Mimi ni mshenzi (I am a fool)." MOVEMENT In Mombasa on Monday, the President dismissed as washenzi, people who who “think development should go to the people where a leader comes from” should be ashamed of themselves". And now MP Ngunjiri has launched what he calls the Washenzi Movement, which he said will show the President the mood of Kenyans who feel neglected after voting for him in large numbers during the 2017 general election. “We have launched this movement to show the President that 8.2 million voters are not fools. The people who voted for him are disappointed by the direction he is taking," he said. Mr Ngunjiri further said he was disappointment with Mr Kenyatta for what he termed a calculated move to sideline Deputy President William Ruto. Mr Ruto wants to succeed Mr Kenyatta when he finishes his second and final term. ODINGA TIES The MP warned that the head of State's close association with Orange Democratic Movement leader Raila Odinga will cause his followers to abandon him. He claimed Mr Odinga wants to ruin the good relationship the President and DP Ruto have had since 2013, when they first vied for the top offices. “What we know is that the deputy president has stood with us. It is important for residents to see the two principals working together like they did before. We are not opposed to his handshake with Mr Odinga but to seeing him push Dr Ruto away." The legislator further noted that the peace enjoyed in the Rift Valley resulted from the good working relationship between the two leaders so any form of betrayal will likely change the status quo. KURIA REMARKS On Monday, Mr Kenyatta told the public that he values his friendship with Mr Odinga and reiterated that their goal is countrywide development. The president's remarks painted him as angered by criticism concerning development in Mt Kenya. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, one of those who have been critical of the President, said the people of that region must be told the truth ahead of the 2022 election so they can pick the right leaders. He later apologised to President Kenyatta, saying he respects him. On Tuesday, however, Mr Kuria issued remarks that were seen as a show of defiance. In a Facebook post, the lawmaker said, “H.E the President is 100% right. He is spot on. We need development in every corner of this country. It is in that spirit and in line with the President’s position that I believe Mt Kenya region also deserves development just like any other region. Right now it’s not happening."   President Kenyatta slams his critics on development in Mt Kenya.