Authorities in Kisii have announced the immediate closure of Gusii Stadium for one month to complete renovations that were left underway at the facility last year. According to the county's Director of Sports, Samwel Wanyama, the renovations will involve elevation of the perimeter wall, cutting of grass and filling of holes that were left open at the running track. “We have notified all teams in this region to host their home matches at different fields in the county as we are looking forward to improve the standards of Gusii stadium to meet the requirements of Football Kenya Federation (FKF)," he said. Wanyama hinted that the renovations at the facility will be finalised in December this year, but local teams will be able to use it after the elevation of the inner perimeter wall. “The irrigation system has a small problem, something that we want to address urgently alongside adding fertiliser to the grass," he added. National Super League sides Shabana, Gusii Starlets and Resolution Kisii have been using the stadium for their home matches, although it lacks the inner perimeter which is essential for security concerns. While in Division one, Shabana used Mosocho and Kenyenya playing grounds for their home matches, about 12 kilometers from Kisii town. Shabana Chairperson Paul Mayieko said they will play their home matches at the Awendo Stadium in Migori or Kericho Green Stadium, while the renovations continue. "We don’t have any other option other than complying with the direction as the county moves forwards to complete the renovations " he said. Gusii Starlets head coach Leitred Oyori confirmed to have received the notice, saying his team is holding practice sessions at Kisii University grounds. FKF Nyanza South Branch Chairperson Yopesh Mose said Gusii Stadium will be among the best facilities in the country after the renovations. The stadium was set for a major rehabilitation in January last year after the County government allocated Sh50 million for the exercise, but the exercise stalled since then. The amount, which was approved during a special sitting, was meant for rehabilitation and laying of a tartan tack.  