Whether it's a giant print of your fancy painting or a limited-edition map of East Africa, some of your most treasured wall decorations may undoubtedly not fit into standard wooden and steel frames. Do not worry, though, because according to Mr Benson Hinga, a freelance interior designer, there are many options that can still make your walls look appealing. Here are some of the never-thought-of-before alternatives to the regular frames. Mr Hinga says that though some of them may look misfit and awkward, they achieve the first rule of decor, which is to create variety in the house. 1. HangersHangers have found their way out of the bathrooms and wardrobes and are now making a mark on the walls. According to Mr Hinga, they create a seamless and teasing flow when used to hold wallpapers on to the walls. “Wooden hangers, for instance, are perfect for holding prints or posters as they make the wallpapers appear to be part of the wall. If you want your poster to hang taut against the wall, it is advisable to clip a hanger to the bottom too,” he says. The best pattern, he adds, is when you hang them straight as they create a continuous show of the wall hangings; but if you want to achieve an eclectic display, cascading the hangers is the best. For a total eclectic display, points the interior designer, you can paint the hangers as this brings about a match between them and the posters. “To avoid any damage or creasing, place a small piece of foam or sticking glue between the print and the clasps as this enables them to remain in position. 2. Magnets Apart from using magnets as organisational tools only, Mr Hinga reveals that they also have a variety of other uses. “They are an easy way to display your artwork without damaging it.” However, he advices that the artworks need to be light weight so that they don’t stretch out of the magnetic field. They (artworks need to be able to support magnetic attraction). “To achieve this, stick or glue small magnets (or anything metallic/graphite) over top of the painting and at the bottom; and then place the artwork on thumbtacks with small magnets on the wall — where you want the painting to be.” To strengthen the magnetic field, he adds; use a number of magnets as they ensure the paintings stick to the walls strongly. “The good thing about magnets and thumbtacks is they can easily be moved when cleaning the walls or when you want to change the position of your wall hanging. They are not like hangers and no damage can be done on the wall when using them,” he says. 3. ClipboardsClip boards may not sound ideal for home decorations, but the interior designer observes that their unpredictability is what makes them appealing. “They come in a variety of colours, array of sizes and they can be rearranged with ease”, he points out. He continues: “If you have kids or someone else dear to you at your home, this is a great avenue for showcasing their art skills. They will use the clip board to hold on to the drawing surface when drawing or painting and then the same clip board is used in displaying their creativity to everyone in the house. Also, he adds, it only takes a few seconds to switch out pictures — flip from one artwork to another — when the next painting or any other art work is done and ready for displaying. 4. Easels If your walls are already cluttered with plenty of family photos, wall clocks and every other wall hanging you treasure, you don’t have to have your new piece of artwork in the basement room as you can still prop it on an easel, and according to the interior designer, and it will still fit within your decorating scheme. “Easels work best and are a great way to display larger pieces such huge abstracts and canvas artworks. This is because they can support a lot of weight and hold unusually shaped paintings and artworks,” he underscores and adds: “though most of them are quite expensive, you can try an aluminium Easel if a wooden one is off your budget”. 5. Lean It If you have an unframed canvas or a matted print, points out Mr Benson Hinga, leaning them along a shelf or the floor is a great option. “Leaning art instead of hanging it allows for flexibility and adds some dimension to your room," he concludes.    Before starting a garden, ensure that the area has been cleared of weeds and random bushes.