As expected, World marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge was Friday named the 2018 Sportsman of the Year after beating a strong field of six competitors at the Safaricom Sports Personality of the Year awards (Soya) awards held at Fort Jesus in Mombasa. Kipchoge, who won the award in 2016, was widely expected to win the award after a successful season which saw him crowned IAAF World Athlete of the Year, beating among others, fellow athletes Consenslus Kipruto, Elijah Manangoi, Kenya rugby sevens star William Lomu and Harambee Stars goalkeeper Patrick Matasi in what was a tight race. Still fresh from breaking the World marathon record, Kipchoge won the men’s Soya title in 2016, but was beaten to the overall title by the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympics 5,000 metres champion Vivian Cheruiyot in 2017. Kipchoge, who is also the Olympic Marathon champion, started the year strongly with victory at the 2018 London Marathon in 2 hours, 04 minutes and 17 seconds on April 22, which was the 15th fastest time over the distance, having won at the same course in 2015 in 2:04:42 and 2016 in 2:03:05, missing the world record by eight seconds. Then Kipchoge went for Berlin Marathon victory where he shattered the World marathon record by shaving off one minute and 18 seconds to set a new world record time of 2:01:39 in September 16 the German capital. On his way to setting a new world record and his third Berlin Marathon title, Kipchoge also broke the 30km World Record, setting new times of 1:26:45. Those accomplishment saw him declared the 2018 IAAF Male Athlete of the Year. Athlete Beatrice Chepkoech, the Africa, Continental and IAAF Diamond League Series steeplechase sensation, beat fellow athlete Helen Obiri, Boxer Fatuma Zarika and rugby star Janet Okello to win the Sportswoman of the year award. Rising star Angela Okutoyi won girl’s category in the Most Promising player awards. In the boy’s category, Edward Zakayo who grabbed 5000m Commonwealth Games bronze before following it up with victories over the same distance at the world under-20 and Africa Championships won. Africa women hockey champions Telkom Kenya was crowned the women’s team of the year award. Kenya women’s rugby team, Lionesses, coach Kevin ‘Bling’ Wambua was named coach of the year. Overall Sports personality of the year Eliud Kipchoge Sportsman of The YearEliud Kipchoge. Sportswoman of the yearBeatrice Chepkoech. Sportsman living with a disability Dickson Onduari Sportswoman living with a disability Jane Ndenga Most Promising boy Edward Zakayo Most Promising girl Angela Okutoyi Federation of the yearKSSSA Team of the Year Men Harambee Stars Team of The Year Women Telkom Kenya Coach of the Year Kevin Wambua Community Hero Lawrence Karanja  