Kenya Under-23 international Teddy Osok saved his blushes of missing a penalty to hand Wazito the winner in a 2-1 win over hard-fighting Kisumu All Stars in a National Super League (NSL) match at Camp Toyoyo grounds on Sunday. David Orem broke the deadlock after 32 minutes but Dennis Oalo equalized with a hard shot from a tight angle that cannoned off the crossbar before sailing into the net on 49th minute. Wazito were awarded a controversial penalty on 52nd minute when Orem was adjudged to have been tripped inside the box but Osok’s kick was punched away by All Stars custodian Geoffrey Were. The former Gor Mahia Youth and Sofapaka midfielder then sumptuously turned home the winner on 76 minutes with a smart outfoot shot into the far post. Harambee Stars coach Sebastien Migne and his assistant Nicolas Bourriquet were in attendance. “We were focused and I thank God that we managed to bounce back from the defeat,” Wazito coach Ahmed Mohammed, whose side leapfrogged Talanta to second spot on 21 points, remarked after the game. His opposite number Francis “Killer” Oduor attributed the loss to poor officiating. “The penalty changed the game, until that time we were playing well and creating chances but we failed to capitalize on them,” claimed the former international. In other matches, Ushuru stretched their lead at the helm with a 3-0 triumph over Eldoret Youth at Ruaraka grounds. Edwin Mwaura, Michael Osundwa and Jeremiah Wanjala grabbed a goal apiece in the eighth, 14th and 84th minutes to take their tally to 25 points from nine rounds. In Kakamega, Victor Ngome’s lone strike gifted St. Joseph Youth a 1-0 win over hosts Green Commandoes as Oscar Oketch brace halted Shabana’s three-match winless run with a 2-0 result over Bidco United at Gusii stadium.Sunday’s resultsUshuru 3-0 Eldoret Youth (Ruaraka grounds)Shabana 2-0 Bidco United (Gusii stadium)Green Commandoes 0-1 St. Joseph’s Youth (Bukhungu stadium)Wazito 2-1 Kisumu AllStars (Camp Toyoyo grounds)Fortune Sacco 2-2 City Stars (Thika Subcounty stadium)Thika United 2-2 Talanta (Thika Subcounty stadium)Kenya Police 2-1 Kangemi AllStars (Karuturi grounds)Monday matchesAdministration Police v Nairobi Stima (Camp Toyoyo grounds, 2pm)Kibera Black Stars v Coast Stima (Camp Toyoyo grounds, 4.15pm)Migori Youth v Modern Coast Rangers (Awendo Green stadium)   Mwalala said they are targeting to win the tourney despite this being their maiden appearance.