Wazito handed Shabana their first defeat of the 2018/19 National Super League season edging them 1-0 in a fiercely contested match at the Gusii Stadium on Saturday. Zachary Gathu scored the lone goal in the 65th minute to silence the home crowd that had dignitaries like Kisii County Executive for Sports Duke Mainga. It was also the first loss for Gilbert Selebwa since taking over as head coach at the club. “I always accept defeat but today’s defeat was due to the referee’s incompetence, he openly made decisions that were against us hence turning the game to be one-sided,” griped Selebwa in reference to two penalty appeals that were turned down in the second half. His opposite number Mohamed Muchulla was left in awe of his charges for the hard-fought win that leaves them at second place, a point behind leaders Ushuru. “Shabana’s fighting spirit was high in the first half but they missed their scoring opportunities something that cost them later,” said Muchulla. “The home fans came in large numbers and at one point they cheered loudly that we were unable to concentrate, that's why we played a defensive game after scoring," he added. Shabana suffered an early setback when Oscar Oketch picked a knee injury in the 35th minute and was unable to continue. Selebwa was forced to introduce Dennis Monda for the injured Oketch. The hosts could have been rewarded for their late surge but Bob Mugalia’s strike came off the bar in the 90th minute. Meanwhile at the Eldoret Showground, hosts Eldoret Youth were held to a 1-1 draw by Kibera Black Stars. Tony Barasa opened the scoring in the 82nd minute for the visitors but Anthony Chingwa secured a point for his side with a well-taken penalty deep in stoppage time.   Kibera Black Stars Coach Godfrey Oduor said that he was impressed with his boys despite the draw. “We had prepared well and we hoped to win but we live to fight another day,” said Oduor. Eldoret Youth coach Anderson Sango said that they were satisfied with a point. “We came into this match hoping to outshine our visitors by the virtue of playing at home but they were equally tough. I want to assure our fans to expect good things moving forward in the season,” said Sango.   Among the fans in attendance was multiple Olympics and World 3,000m steeplechase champion Ezekiel Kemboi who urged locals to turn up in large numbers and support Eldoret Youth whenever they are at home. At the Thika Sub-county Stadium, Bidco United thrashed Migori Youth 4-1 in the early kick-off before leaders Ushuru stunned hosts Thika United 2-0. Nairobi City Stars held Coast Stima 2-2 at Mbaraki Sports Club, Mombasa. Saturday results Shabana 0-1 Wazito Eldoret Youth 1-1 Kibera Black Stars Thika United 0-2 Ushuru Bidco United 4-1 Migori Youth Coast Stima 2-2 Nairobi City Stars  