Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) has returned to sponsor the Kenya National Rally Championship (KNRC) for the next three years. KCB Director for Marketing and Communication Angela Mwirigi announced the new sponsorship deal during the 2018 annual motorsports awards ceremony on Saturday evening in Nairobi. However, she did not disclose the value of KCB’s sponsorship for rallying. “I wish to reassure you that we will continue with our sponsorship for Motorsports this year. The next three years will be vital for us as we gear up for the return of the World Rally Championship to Kenya and Africa,” Mwirigi said in her speech. Speaking at the same function, Kenya Motor Sports Federation chairman Phineas Kimathi said that with the new deal, the entry fee for KNRC events will be lowered to encourage more drivers to participate. The entry fee payable buy drivers wishing to compete in KNRC had jumped to close to Sh50,000 from Sh12,000 just about one year ago, discouraging most of the competitors from taking part in KNRC events. Each of the eight organising clubs will now receive Sh2 million in addition to medical services package which will include an ambulance and a helicopter. During the awards ceremony, navigator Tuta Mionki who is a student at Abdul Sidi Rally Academy (Asra) was voted the Motorsports Personality of the Season for her achievements in the sport. As navigator, she helped another student at Asra, Eric Bengi, clinch both the 2018 KNRC Group ‘N’ and Division One tiles. She is also the chairperson of the Autocross Commission. Separately, Kimathi also said that world motorsports governing body FIA had agreed to extend the homologation period for the Group ‘N’ Cars to eight years from the present four year-term. Carl Tundo and Tim Jessop received their awards as the 2018 Overall Kenya National Rally Championship title holders after winning six out of the eight major rounds of the series. They also recorded their fifth Safari Rally win after clinching victory in the 2018 round of the series. Other winners on the night were Sohanjeet Puee and Adnan Din for winning Division Two and Group S. Nikhil Sachania and Alfir Khan were rewarded for clinching Division Three and Group S. Sarit Shah, while Wayne Fernandes won in the Two Wheel Drive Category. Safina Khan received the trophy for her success in the Autocross Championship by winning the Twho Wheel Drive Non-turbo Class. Others were Imran Hakada (2WD Turbo), Sahib OMAR (4WD Turbo), Kirit Rajput (Open Class) and his son Yuvraj Rajput who was recognised for wimnning the Bambino Category.  