Celebrations to usher in the New year ended on a sad note when revellers at a village in Kisauni, Mombasa County, were attacked by a panga-wielding gang. Just as the residents of Kagujo village had started celebrating, a gang of about six young men armed with pangas and blunt objects descended on them. After attacking them for almost 10 minutes, the men fled leaving five people badly injured. INSECURITY On Tuesday morning the residents said their call for security to beefed in the area has fell on deaf ears. According to 40-year-old Kahaso Kaingu, a businesswoman attacked by the gang, the young men pounced on them as they sipped traditional palm wine (mnazi) outside the house. “We were seated outside the house preparing to usher into the New Year. No sooner had we started celebrating than a group of young people wearing masks attacked us. The hit me on the head and left me bleeding on the floor,” she said. Good Samaritans, she said, took her to a nearby hospital where she was treated and later discharged. “It is no longer safe here. The youths are on the loose because they attack even in broad day light. Police have done little to address the situation,” said Ms Kaingu. UNCONSCIOUS David Lewa, a high school teacher, is also a victim. “The gang comprised six young men. They hit me on the head and I fell down. I became unconscious and only found myself at the Coast General Hospital where I was treated then discharged,” said Mr Lewa. Another resident, Stone Bidii, said escalating insecurity has affected their lives. He called for the security to beefed up so that they can enjoy peace. So deep is the insecurity in the area that the villager elder, Khamis Mwaguni, declined to speak in public fearing for his life. “The security situation in this village is not good but I cannot even talk about it. I have pushed for the security to beefed up in this region. Hopeful the authorities will listen and act,” said Mzee Mwaguni.   Residents ask police to deal with criminals and vigilantes alike amid spiralling crime.