As the news cycle rolled in during the Democratic Republic of Congo elections, one couldn't help but feel a twinge of envy stirring up. It's not for its vast rich land the size of two thirds of Western Europe filled with gemstones, or its vast population of 80 million, the 5th highest in the continent. The envy is for its church. The religious institution is no ordinary source of spiritual growth and moral authority. The DRC church, majority being Catholic, serves as the pinnacle source of democracy. Ever since President Joseph Kabila refused to step down, the church has been the most vocal voice calling for the overdue election. This role in most countries, including us, rests with the opposition who make the political statements, call for protests and double as the activist. MURDERED In its place, the church called for people to take to the streets carrying their Bibles and crucifixes, marching for Kabila to step down. Much like the opposition and democratic activists, the church was physically attacked with reports of worshippers being shot and teargas being deployed on churches for the demonstrations. The Catholic Bishop’s National Episcopal Conference of the Congo (CENCO) even sent its own observers to the polling stations. Undeniably, the church paid the ultimate sacrifice and price for the now disputed 2018 election where the surprise winner is opposition leader Felix Tshisekedi. So, how does the Kenyan church fair in comparison? What influence, if any, does it hold in the political spheres? Does it call for justice to be upheld in the rising corruption cases that are readily unfolding and steadily stalling in getting convictions at the behest of Kenyans bearing the grunt of lost funds? Has it been the religious activist crying for the lost lives of young women murdered in the cruellest manner and men shot brutally by the police with no remorse or mercy? Has it been first to call for medication and calm in the rising political divide and public upset in the run-up to the rather far 2022 elections? What have we heard from the church? NEGLECTED Ours is a clear divorce between the church and the public. The voice of the church, being the congregation, was long bequeathed like a chattel into the political hands. In unison, the church does not speak for its people; it’s a mute that is spoken for by the political beings. It’s also blind to the injustices bearing down on itself, and deaf to the cries from within. Mothers cry for their children’s lives, children desperate for medical intervention for their parents because medical care is too costly, and the vast number of youths looking for a sign of hope in a land where they are unheard and neglected. Oh, but rather bizarrely, the church is not limp and immobile. It rises to receive lucre gladly and conveniently offers its podium to the most influential. With each church being a direct influence to its congregation, the church offers its democratic voice to its preferred, in contradiction to upholding democracy, consequently influencing the electoral outcome. Whether the result favours the church or not is of no consequence to it as it’s not politically inclined to uphold democracy, the rule of law or call for progressive development for the people thereafter. Have you ever witnessed any church send its own observers to the polling stations to ensure the voting process is free and fair and the tallying is transparent? The church’s mandate seems to go as far as lucre for the podium with no influence on the message being delivered. COMPASS And so, the public with their little influence and little to offer remain voiceless looking to themselves for that moral and political voice. We, as the congregation from our various churches, come together and make the call for action, take to the streets and face any attacks. The public is its own church political voice without the much coveted podium. But, this convoluted separation of religion and politics from the people doesn’t have to be. Yes, things appear grime with lack of incentive for the church to take any political action for its people. But, alas, the commissioner of the church gave us the greatest commandment, “love your neighbour as you love yourself.” (Luke 10:27) Religious service is not for some but for all. If Jesus had only performed miracles for the likes of the centurion who had a lot to give at the expense of the man at the pool of Bethsheba, wouldn’t the Pharisees have called him a hypocrite? There are many inter-denominational partnerships around the country with a huge influence on large congregations. It will only take one to stand up and be a political compass guided by religious principles and morality. The writer works with an international airline on dispute resolution; gladysburini@gmail.com  