The Nation Media Group has announced appointments of five senior editors in the ongoing restructuring of the business – and as the group seeks to move out of its traditional East African market. In making the appointments, the new Group Editorial Director Mutuma Mathiu said the credibility of the Nation, integrity, quality journalism and editorial independence will still be a top priority for the Group as it moves to solidify its place in the market. Announcing the changes, Mr Mathiu said: “It matters not where you come from or what your gender is, what matters is your integrity and journalism skills. This is a very strong team and we have high expectations of it. I wish them all the best.” QUALITY Veteran journalist Pamela Makotsi-Sittoni becomes the Executive Editor in charge of the Daily Nation, a position previously held by Mutuma Mathiu – now the Group Editorial Director. Ms Makotsi-Sittoni, who first joined Nation in 1993, was previously the Managing Editor of The East African, and she will charged with growing the circulation of the NMG’s flagship publication – the largest in the region. “She will play a pivotal role in turning around the circulation of the Daily Nation, which will be her primary focus, policing integrity and enforcement of quality standards, the broader integration of print and digital processes and the redesign of our products,” said Mr Mathiu. Taking over as Managing Editor The East African is Mr Ochieng Rapuro who has been given a broader role to strengthen Nation’s presence in the region by exploring new products. He will double as the Africa Project lead as the NMG scouts for newer markets outside the region. Mr Rapuro was previously the Editor of Business Daily, regarded as a premier business publication in the country. “Ochieng’s combination of commitment to editorial rigour and wide business knowledge will be invaluable,” said Mr Mathiu. To take over at the Business Daily is Mr Ng'ang'a Mbugua, previously the Editor of Saturday Nation, and who becomes BD’s Managing Editor. Mr Mbugua’s role will be to strengthen commercial partnerships between BD, local and international businesses. Mr Mbugua had previously worked as BD’s Chief Sub-editor. Wayua Muli, a veteran magazines’ editor has been appointed the new Editor for Saturday Nation replacing Mr Mbugua. Ms Muli has been the editor of the Saturday Magazine insert. “Wayua brings a wealth of experience to the service of the challenging Saturday audience, which will call for new ideas to win a difficult to please demographic,” said Mathiu. Another new appointment is of David Aduda who will be the editor in charge of Partnerships and Projects. Mr Aduda will coordinate the department’s commercial activities and the many projects lined up. Mr Mutuma also affirmed the appointment of Emmanuel Juma as the managing Editor Broadcasting, Churchill Otieno as Head of Digital and Mike Owuor as Editor Sunday Nation. Mr Juma will continue to lead the editorial effort in the revamp and development of broadcast services while Mr Otieno will lead efforts towards a sustainable digital model. Also confirmed is Peter Nagre as the Editor of Taifas. The positions of Managing Editor, Weekends and Taifas and Editor, Training and Innovation were left vacant and will be announced soon.   Credibility, integrity, quality journalism and editorial independence to remain top priority, says new editorial boss