Eleven-time SportPesa Premier League (SPL) champions Tusker came from a goal down to edge out Sofapaka 3-2 in a thrilling encounter at Kenyatta stadium in Machakos on Saturday. Timothy Otieno cancelled John Avirre’s first half opener on 48 minutes before substitute John Kamau and Justine Omary grabbed a goal apiece on 51 and 65 minutes respectively. There was a late glimmer of hope for Sofapaka when Cliff Kasuti's shot took a wicked deflection off Omary but it turned out to be a mere consolation as the visitors held on to their slim lead. Tusker temporarily goes top of the table on 13 points, seven ahead of Sofapaka. The position could change should Mathare United record a positive result against champions Gor Mahia in their encounter on Sunday. The hosts, Sofapaka had a bright start into this 23rd meeting between the two sides with Dennis Odhiambo sending a left foot shot that Mvuyekure parried back into play two minutes after kickoff. On 12 minutes, Mike Oduor sent in a cross from the right flank targeting Avirre whose shot was punched by Mvuyekure. He squared it to Odhiambo who missed the target by a whisker with a grass cutter. Aimo in the Sofapaka goal pulled a fingertip save to keep out Boniface Muchiri’s attempted lob from the edge of the box on 25 minutes. Heavens opened at the half hour mark but that didn’t stop the frenetic action on the wet surface. Odhiambo’s free kick was handled by the Tusker wall resulting into another set-piece that led to the opener. The Harambee Stars midfielder teed up Avirre who unleashed a rasping shot into the left corner with Tusker shot-stopper Emery left napping. Three minutes before the break, Tusker fluffed an open chance to equalize through David Juma and Sydney Ochieng’ who failed to tap home Timothy Otieno’s inch-perfect cross in the six yard box. The brewers came back re-energized and two minutes after the restart Tusker coach Robert Matano rested off-colour Sydney Ochieng for John Kamau. The former City Stars man weighted in a left foot in-swinger with his first touch on the ball that found Timothy Otieno who waylaid his marker Mousa Omar to volley home from a tight angle. On 51 minutes, Kamau sent his glancing header to the roof of the net for Tusker's second after Boniface Muchiri had beaten Kasuti on the left.   Omary then capitalised on a goal mouth melee in the Sofapaka box on 65 minutes to nod home from close range and hand his side a two-goal cushion. Otieno thought to have claimed a double on 72 minutes but his goal was ruled for offside, two minutes after Sofapaka were forced to replace injured goalkeeper Richard Aimo for Burundian new signing Justine Ndikumana. Matano has now beaten Sofapaka twice in a row after a 2-1 win in the second leg of last season. Overall, Tusker has beaten the 2009 champions four times in 22 meetings with nine matches ending in a draw. Tusker host Mathare United next Saturday at Kasarani stadium as Sofapaka tackle a long trip to Mumias to face Vihiga United on Sunday.  