We are living in the age of creativity. Regrettably though, 99 per cent of the world’s population are consumers. Only one per cent are creators. Most people assume they’re not creative. Perhaps because creativity, in everyday parlance, has been associated with people who have artistic and musical capabilities. This could not be further from the truth especially when we consider the definitions of creativity. Myron Rush, an author and consultant in management, defines creativity the simplest: “Making of something new or rearranging something old”. Using this definition, Myron puts it that man is a source of creativity; he needs no special training nor does he need to exert special effort to be creative. Everyone of us is born with creative abilities but, consider the following: At the age of five, children ask 120 questions per day. At the age of six, 60 questions and at the age of forty, 4 questions. What happens as we grow older? Non-creativity is learnt. We encounter a society and an education system that prides in consumption and many inhibiting rules and regulations. All this plus in addition the fear of failure renders us uncreative. If nothing is done to re-ignite people’s creativity, it dies. Creativity is akin to going on an adventure. It involves two activities — thinking and then doing. It also requires an environment where both these activities can flourish. It is not uncommon to hear parents tell their children that they ask too many questions. In fact, too much questioning is considered a bane. The stifling of questions at this young age is usually the first step to uncreativeness. A process that continues into adulthood. It is also not uncommon to hear, especially in organisations, that idea ‘X’ cannot be tried because ‘Y’ has always been the way. TRANSFORM Rollo May of ‘The Courage to Create’ adds that creativity also requires passion and commitment. The phrase ‘talent is overrated’ comes to mind. Even though we are all inborn creative, building your creativity is not a task that can be accomplished without effort. ‘Creativity is a natural product of man’s thinking’, Myron continues. Thinking is an integral part of who we are. Our ability to reason is what distinguishes us from animals. A thinking man is a creative man. No man can think for another, neither can one truly think without drawing from the thoughts of others. This is where the rubber meets the road. Thinking is hard work. It requires you to question assumptions, yourself and others; search and read endlessly, and all along, being willing to unlearn everything you know, then trying the new out. This effort is what differentiates exceptional creatives from everyday creatives. The #10yearchallenge brought a wave of excitement on social media. It was incredible to see how people transform over a 10-year period. If we were to do it again with a focus on our problems as a country, would we exhibit any growth? Ten years ago, we were battling corruption, drought, floods, poor governance, gender inequality, tribalism, etc. It is utterly shameful that 10 years later, we’re still battling the same vices, and in greater magnitudes. This shouldn’t spell eternal doom. It is a call for us to intentionally nurture creativity. Creativity finds solutions to problems, finds new and improved ways of doing things and improves productivity. We as individuals with life and reason occupy this nation. If we’re not pursuing creativity as individuals, we cannot be creative as a society. Improving creativity is a private choice with a public impact. REPRIMAND The good news is that creativity can be learnt. Studies by Clayton M. Christensen outline five key behaviours that help: observing, questioning, exploring, experimenting, and networking to meet people with different stimulating perspectives. As we do this, in an enabling environment, we’ll become more creative. Within us are Kenya’s solutions to societal inefficiencies, since we know them better than anyone else. However, we’re not committed to creating and enabling so that we can grow within. We have killed curiosity with reprimand, alternatives with bureaucracy, replaced books with phones, words with emojis, skills with grades, doing with saying, and preferred imports over locally made goods. We’re dying yet none of us is perceiving it. Creative minds are an inexhaustible gold mine. We should know we’re failing when even our own music content is wanting.  