Kenya is reeling from the tragic terror attack early this week that claimed more than 20 lives and injured many more. We all recognise that terror remains a veritable threat and that we must beef up security operations, intensify vigilance and involve everyone in safekeeping. President Uhuru Kenyatta made a declaration that the government will up its game, change tack, secure the territory and prevent future attacks. Core to this is enhanced funding, use of technology, advancing training for security agencies in addition to cross-border co-operation and surveillance. Various suggestions have been flouted to enhance safety. On Friday, the Private Security Regulatory Authority chief executive Fazul Mohamed announced plans to give firearms to private security operatives manning public installations, reigniting an old debate that remains unsettled. Central to this proposition is that guards are the front-line custodians of safety of public and private establishments, yet they are poorly equipped to carry out their duty. At best they only wield wooden planks, which is laughable, as they cannot keep off armed raiders as we witnessed during the raid at the Dusit Complex in Nairobi. Essentially, private guards operate under perpetual danger. Elsewhere, including neighbouring Uganda and Rwanda, private guards have firearms, which is regarded as a basic tool of trade. Owning or operating firearms is never a big deal in such territories. However, Kenya has been reluctant in going that direction. This is the moment to commence sober and dispassionate conversation on the subject. The necessity to arm private guards is not contestable, however, there are pertinent logistical and security challenges that must be confronted. The guards must be sufficiently trained, properly socialised and thoroughly vetted before they can be entrusted with guns. Dangers abound in liberalising issuance of guns licences. Experience with police officers and other uniformed officers is telling. Many have taken advantage of the guns they possess to harass, intimidate and rob. We have several reports of police officers leasing out guns to criminals, who use them for robberies and other misdeeds. Except for a few companies, most private security firms do not have professional guards. The guards are overworked, underpaid and ill-prepared to handle weapons. Giving them guns without safety precautions is risky. Clearly, there is strong argument for equipping private guards with firearms. But, it cannot be done in a hurry. We must establish a proper system and process to vet and ascertain viability of issuing private guards with guns.  