Controversial American singer Chris Brown is in trouble with the law once again. He hit the headlines for the wrong reasons again on Monday when he was arrested in Paris over rape allegations. He was later released without charges and the BBC reports that he plans to sue his accuser of defamation. The 29-year-old singer has faced several charges of assault and violence in the past. The singer has been in and out of rehab severally for anger-management treatment. 'GREW UP FAST' In a documentary that tells the life story of Chris Brown, Welcome to My Life, Brown’s mother Joyce Hawkins admits that her son’s upbringing may have led to his troubled life as an adult. "He grew up so fast, he didn't really get to have a childhood or the teenage life of a normal person," she is quoted as saying in an article posted in BBC. We take a look at key incidents that have shaped the troubled life of the singer: LOST HIS VIRGINITY He lost his virginity at eight years old to a girl from his neighbourhood in Tappahannock, Virginia who was around 15 years old. Speaking to The Guardian newspaperhe said: "It's different in the country. By that point, we were already kind of like hot to trot, you know what I'm saying? Like, girls, we weren't afraid to talk to them; I wasn't afraid. So, at eight, being able to do it, it kind of preps you for the long run, so you can be a beast at it. You can be the best at it." In 2009, he was convicted after assaulting his then girlfriend singer Rihanna. He inflicted serious facial injuries on Rihanna’s face forcing her to skip the Grammy Awards. The court sentenced him to five years' probation, a yearlong domestic violence program and 180 days of community labour.    Christ faced the ultimate rejection in 2014 after Rihanna burned his New Year apology letter to her. According to Hollywoodlife.com, Rihanna set the letter ablaze while entertaining her friends and said “good riddance” when it had smouldered. A fan, Parker Adams, pressed charges for assault against the singer after he punched and broke his nose outside a hotel in Washington DC. Mr Parker attempted to insert himself in a photo that Chris was taking with two female fans. According to The Washington Post, he pleaded guilty and settled with the victim for $100,000 (Sh10.2million) on October 2014. DOCUMENTARY In 2016, he unveiled the trailer to his documentary Welcome to My Life in which he confessed to having suicidal thoughts after assaulting Rihanna. "I went from being on top of the world, number one songs and kind of being like America's sweetheart to being public enemy number one," he said.   Speaking to Nation, the female fan said that she was trying to take a selfie with the singer on her iPhone worth Sh90,000 when the incident occurred. "I have a ticket for the show but I won’t attend it. He should know that we like his songs but he has to respect his fans,” she said. Tickets for the sold-out show were going for Sh5,000. Model Baylee Curran is yet another victim of the singer's temper outburst. In 2016, Baylee filed an assault complaint against the singer after he allegedly threatened her with a deadly weapon in his house. According to TMZ, Baylee Curran told the LA Times the singer pointed a gun at her face after she had been admiring his friend's jewellery. AP later reported that Chris was released on a $250,000 (Sh25.4million) bail. REPORTED TO CHILD SERVICES In light of his arrest for assaulting Baylee Curran, he was reported to child services by his baby mama Nia Guzzman who felt that his visits with their daughter Royalty needed to be more monitored. Chris did not take this complaint graciously and accused Nia of taking advantage of his arrest to solicit more child support payments. According to TMZ, he makes a monthly payment of $2,500 (Sh254,000) for his daughter’s upkeep. As 2018 drew to a close, the singer was once more slapped with charges for keeping a monkey as pet. The charge was prompted by a video he posted online showing his daughter Royalty playing with the monkey. He was charged with two counts of owning a restricted species of the primate without obtaining a permit as required by law. According to the United States law, the charge carries a maximum sentence of six months behind bars if found guilty. He is due in court on February 6 to plead his case. 'FALSELY ACCUSED'On Monday, January 21, 2019, Chris was arrested and detained by police in Paris after a 25-year old model accused the singer and two others of allegedly raping her on the night of Jan 15 while hanging out at his hotel suite. Police at the French capital examined the complaint further and later released the singer on Tuesday. Shortly after his release, Chris denied the charges and posted on Instagram: "I want to make it perfectly clear, this is false.” Then he added a photo that said: "This bi**h lyin'."     Chris Brown claims he lost his virginity when he was eight year old to an older girl, who was 14 or 14, and believes it has made him a 'beast' in bed.