IN DAR ES SALAAM Gor Mahia were on Wednesday dumped out of SportPesa Cup 4-3 on post-match penalties by little-known Mbao FC at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. After a one-all stalemate in regular, Gor captain Harun Shakava had his penalty saved by promising Mbao custodian Metacha Mnata as fellow defender Shaffiq Batambuze saw his effort come off the bar, while substitutes Francis Kahata, Jacques Tuyisenge and Boniface Omondi scored for the losers. Mbao scored their spot-kicks through Said Hamis, Ngalema, Ibrahim Hashimu and David Mwasa whilst Gor goalie saved Harim Abdulkarim's penalty. Veteran Kenyan striker Dennis Oliech gave Gor Mahia the lead from the spot after Erisa Ssekisambu's goal-bound shot was handled inside the area midway through the second half before Aboubacker Ngalema drew Mbao level. "I know Gor Mahia very well," Mbao coach Ally Bushiri, an ex-Tanzania international explained after the game. "I emphasised to my players on the need to keep the tactical discipline and awareness. When the score was still 0-0 at the break, I knew we had a chance." After consistently probing Mbao's backline in the opening half, Oliech's goal eventually came from the penalty spot, with the 31-year-old forward sending goalkeeper Mnata the wrong way from 12 yards. This spot kick was awarded after Mbao defender David Miwasa handled Ssekisambu's shot in the box. Ngalema's goal meanwhile came after a well worked move by Mbao from the corner kick. The highlight of the opening half was when assistant referee Gustav Banguma seemed to wrongly disallow a legitimate Ssekisambu goal after 18-minutes. The Ugandan forward had reacted quickest to tap home from point blank after a fierce Dennis Oliech header had been parried back to play by Mnata. Two minutes later, a visibly irritated Gor Mahia coach Hassan Oktay was sent off from the dugout by match referee Erick Maniakiza after an altercation with the fourth official. Zedekiah Otieno immediately stepped up to take charge of the Kenyan champions for the remainder of the match. By that time, Gor should have been atleast two goals ahead, against a technically average side whose owners specialise in producing furniture. First, Lawrence Juma created space for himself inside the box five minutes after the opening whistle but then had his right-footed shot flash narrowly wide of the goal with Mnata well beaten. Moments later, Gervas Rambo shot over the bar for the hosts before Dennis Oliech had a shot acrobatically saved by Mnata.   Oburu halved the deficit late on for AFC Leopards.