A fourth suspect was arrested in Nyali, Mombasa County, on Sunday evening in connection to the murder of former Kilifi Deputy Governor Kenneth Kamto. Officers from the Homicide Unit and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) took a gun from the suspect during the arrest at his hideout in Kwa Bulo, a source within the special unit told the Nation. THREE OTHERS The arrest came two days after three suspects were arrested and a mobile phone found. The phone is said to have been stolen from Mr Kamto’s house girl on the eve of Jamhuri Day - on December 11, 2018. The three were taken to a Shanzu courts and investigators allowed to detain them for 14 days for questioning. Police said they would use the phone to trace more suspects. The former deputy governor was shot three times in the living room of his Nyali residence in Mombasa at about 4.45 am on December 12. Coast regional DCI boss Joseph Ng’ang’a said they were committed to finding and punishing the killers. “We do not want to talk about this issue at this stage. Just let us get to the bottom of it first,” he said earlier. BUSINESS DEALS Investigations into the murder of the politician-cum-businessman are focused on the possibility of a business deal gone sour. It is believed Mr Kamto crossed the paths of many, both friends and enemies - detectives revealed to the Nation that before his death, the politician had not been on good terms with some of his business associates. Police sources said Mr Kamto had leased his borehole drilling machine at Sh7 million. “When the client wanted to change the venue of the work, Mr Kamto refused and never refunded the money,” said the officer who sought anonymity as he was not allowed to speak to the press. The source also revealed that a deal of Sh47 million had been underway between Mr Kamto and business partners from Uganda. The Nation also learnt that Mr Kamto and one Kennedy Ngala had been facing charges of obtaining money by false presences. They denied the charges when they faced Shanzu Senior Principal Magistrate Diana Mochache in October 2018.   Suspects seized in Nyali.