A sombre mood filled a packed All Saints Cathedral in Nairobi on Thursday as family and friends congregated for sports journalist James Erick Oduor alias Odu Cobra’s requiem mass. Odu Cobra and 20 others met their untimely death during the Dusit D2 terrorist attack at 14 Riverside drive on January 15. Until his death, the 35-year-old was an employee in the Customer Care department at South Korean multinational electronics company, LG Electronics for over four years. Outside work, his great passion for Kenyan football saw him create an online football show dubbed Wadau TV. Oduor made the cut in the 2019 AIPS Sports Media Awards’ top ten finalists from each continent in the sports blog category. He was honoured with a minute silence during the global ceremony held on January 21 in Lausanne, Switzerland. The mass started at about 10.20am led by Rev. Tom Otieno with members of the family eulogising the fallen hero.   “At one time I was having a drink with a catholic bishop while waiting for a flight in Mombasa, he shared with me why people get surprised about death, and this morning when I went to Lee funeral home, it struck me,” his father, Fredrick Radido eulogised. “James’ death has struck us hard but we shall overcome by God’s grace,” he added, before shortly paving way for his wife. “In an ideal situation, I should be the one lying in that casket but in reality, it’s you James,” his remorseful mother, Margaret Radido recounted. “You’ve left us but I will take care of your family, your kids will be mine. I pray that this shock be a turning point because I realised majority of the victims in the attack were youths, we pray that such an incident should never happen again because it has deprived us of our loved ones,” she added, calling on everyone to maintain peace as they give Oduor a befitting send-off this Saturday in Ukwala, Siaya County. Oduor’s wife. Dianah promised to carry on with her husband’s legacy. “Jemo, I will take care of our kids, I will ensure your legacy lives on,” a teary Dianah remarked as her two kids, Jannel and Giovanni stood by her at the pulpit.  