The extension of the Form One reporting date to next Friday, provides an opportunity for the Education ministry and the secondary schools to tie up any loose ends, and to the parents and guardians to strive and meet their obligations. For the ministry, hopefully, the challenges from the maiden digital selection system have been fully addressed as the grumbling that greeted the start of the process has somewhat died down. Coming just after the festive season during which many of the parents will have overspent on their revelry, the opening of schools is always a financially agonising moment. But come Friday, as the schools put final touches to preparations for the First Term, the focus now naturally turns to the men and women who have been entrusted with the responsibility of looking after these young people. We are, of course, talking about the school principals, who are oftentimes expected to literally produce some magic. It’s a pity that many of them feel abandoned by the ministry and their own employer, the Teachers Service Commission. The schools are not only congested but many are also short of food and the required facilities, including classrooms, dormitories and laboratories. But in a clearly populist, but unrealistic move, the ministry insists the student fee guidelines capped at Sh53,000 annually must be strictly adhered to. However, an analysis of this ceiling confirms that it’s untenable and needs to be reviewed. As we have stated time and again, the Education authorities must not expect school heads to perform miracles. They should get more involved to ease the burden on the head teachers by regularly reviewing school needs and ensuring the provision of additional resources. It’s unfair to try and shield the parents from fully shouldering the burden of paying for their children’s upkeep in the institutions. An alternative is to explore other avenues for raising additional funds for schools. Starting income generation projects is also an option, but these ventures call for greater involvement by parents’ associations. Needed are realistic measures for the schools to run smoothly.  