At least Sh42 billion in dubious contracts and purchases influenced by senior officers in the national government are under the radar of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) as the anti-graft body takes the war against misuse of public funds into the New Year. The investigations cover the period between July 2017 and June last year, with the cumulative loss expected to hit a staggering Sh100 billion, inclusive of the pilferage in 47 county governments, state corporations as well as constitutional commissions and independent offices. According to the EACC’s annual report on the status of corruption cases tabled in the National Assembly by Majority Leader Aden Duale on December 18, the Treasury, and the ministries of Interior, Education and Agriculture rank top in the pilferage of public funds. E-CITIZEN SCANDAL The commission has documented 1,510 cases under active investigations. The tabling of the report coincided with the MPs’ approval of Mr Twalib Mbarak as the new EACC chief executive. Mr Mbarak is expected to take over from Mr Halakhe Waqo, whose term expires on January 11. During his Jamhuri Day address, President Uhuru Kenyatta challenged the EACC, Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Director of Public Prosecutions to ensure that heads roll. At the Education ministry, the commission is investigating the loss of Sh10 billion Free Primary Education funds meant for the procurement of textbooks for public schools across the country. Another Sh5.6 billion for the e- Citizen digital payment platform is also reported to have been stolen by wayward public officers at the National Treasury, in connivance with suppliers. At the National Cereals and Produce Board, about Sh11.3 billion is missing in an alleged irregular purchase of maize at the Kitale, Moi’s Bridge, Bungoma and Eldoret depots. The EACC has been on this case since last May, when the scandal first broke out. Although several senior managers have been charged in court, it is not clear why it has taken the commission this long to conclude the matter. IRREGULAR TENDERS The Interior ministry, domiciled at the Office of the President, is on the spot over the loss of Sh2.4 billion in an alleged fraud and irregular compensation for the acquisition of houses for use by government officers. The Kenya Ports Authority Pension Scheme is under investigation for the Sh1.6 billion irregular procurement for repairs and renovation of its residential houses. The Kenya Urban Roads Authority is also under scrutiny together with the scandal-ridden National Land Commission over irregular compensation of a road reserve on Outering Road in Nairobi. Mandera County is on the radar of the anti-graft body over a Sh1.8 billion irregular awarding of various tenders. Kitui County government is alleged to have constructed river drifts and road works at Sh1.3 billion irregularly. Vihiga County has also been targeted over the Sh800 million construction and repair of Luanda Old Post Office. Busia’s Sh405 million, West Pokot, Sh700 million, Marsabit Sh300 million, Samburu Sh300 million and Nandi Sh300 million, among other counties, are also on the anti-graft body’s notice over abuse of public funds.   With Haji and Kinoti vowing to bring graft barons to book, 2019 will be a busy year in courts.