Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has been elected the new chairman of the powerful Council of Governors and Murang'a's Mwangi wa Iria the vice-chairman. The two won the votes on Monday at Movenpick Hotel in Nairobi County. UNITY Mr Oparanya took over from Turkana County chief Josphat Nanok while Mr Wa Iria succeeded Kirinyaga's Anne Waiguru. In his address, Mr Nanok said, "I was a chair of the council at the time of transition and I am proud that even after we received new members, we remained united as a team." He added: "I stood firm and fought for devolution. My intention was never to use this seat for my own political gain." Ms Waiguru said, "Governor Oparanya hosted us for the Devolution conference in Kakamega last year, and now he is the chair. I am hosting this year's conference, so who knows? I might just be the chair next year." Wajir Governor Mohamud Mohamed was replaced by Makueni's Kivutha Kibwana in the chief whip office. COMMITTEES The executive committee is made up of Mr Oparanya, Mr Wa Iria and Mr Kibwana. The following are the technical committee chairpersons: Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma) - Finance, Planning, Economic Affairs and ICT James Ongwae (Kisii) - Human Resources, Labour and Social Welfare Paul Chepkwony (Kericho) - Gender, Youth, Sports, Culture and Social Services Joyce Laboso (Bomet) - Education Martin Wambora (Embu) -  Trade, Investment, manufacturing and Cooperatives Mohamed Kuti (Isiolo) - Health Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka-Nithi) - Agriculture Moses Lenolkulal (Samburu) -  Arid and Semi-Arid Lands Amason Kingi (Kilifi) - Legal Affairs, Human Rights, Intergovernmental Relations, Security and Foreign Affairs Samuel ole Tunai (Narok)- Tourism and Natural Resources Lee Kinyanjui (Nakuru) - Urban Planning, Housing, Development, Lands, Infrastructure and Energy Governor Ongwae had held his committee position for the last two terms while Mr Chepkwony also retained his position. Dr Laboso chaired the finance committee in the previous term while Mr Kingi took over from Mr Kibwana. The roles of governors Wambora and Kuti are critical to the achievement of President Uhuru Kenyatta's Big Four agenda on affordable housing, universal healthcare, manufacturing and food security. Mr Tunai's county is home is home to the world-famous Maasai Mara National Reserve.   Six governors eyeing powerful Council of Governors top seat.