Kenya Cup league takes a breaks to pave way for the first round of the 2018 Enterprise Cup on Saturday across the country. Fresh from downing Impala Saracens 37-24 on Saturday in Ngong Road Derby, nine times champions Kenya Harlequin will field a second stringer side against Ngong RFC when they meet at the RFUEA ground on Saturday. The winner of the match will match will meet defending champions Homeboyz in the second round on March 9. Homeboyz and last year’s semi finalists Impala Saracens, Kenya Commercial Bank and Kabras Sugar have been given byes to the second round.Also given byes to the second round are Kenya Cup sides Blak Blad from Kenyatta University, Nondescripts, Stanbic Mwamba and Nakuru. Quins and Ngong RFC are among the 16 teams that will be taking part in the first round of the competition that has witnessed change in format with the fixtures coming in between Kenya Cup league matches. Four Kenya Cup sides will be involved in the first round. These include Quins, Menengai Oilers, Strathmore University Leos and Mean Machine from the University of Nairobi Homeboyz made to their first final since 2015 when they bundled out defending champions KCB 12-10 while the Sarries edged out Kabras Sugar 16-13 all in the semi-finals last season. The Deejays beating Impala 18-3 to lift their maiden fifteens major title. In other first round matches, Strathmore Leos will take on JKUAT Cougars at Madaraka Den with the winner getting a ticket to battle Impala Saracens.Kisumu RFC play South Coast Pirates in Kisumu where the winner will get to encounter Blak Blad while Kabras Sugar await the winners between Mombasa RFC and Moi University in the first round match to be played at Mombasa Sports Club. Menengai Oilers will host Catholic University’s Monks at the Nakuru Showground with the winner meeting Nondies in the second round. Machine and Masinde Muliro will face off at the University of Nairobi for a second round date with Stanbic Mwamba while KCB awaits the winners between Kisii and University of Eldoret. Western Bulls and Egerton will clash at Kakamega High School with the winners out to face Nakuru in the second. “We shall rest some of our key players since our focus is now mainly on Kenya Cup where we want to reach the semis,” said Quins assistant coach Benjamin Ayimba after his victory against hosts Impala on Saturday. The victory saw Quins stay third in the Kenya Cup standings with 31 points as Kabras Sugar and defending champions KCB also rolled out comprehensive bonus point victories to maintain their positions in the league. As expected Kabras Sugar were taking no prisoners, thumping visiting Stanbic Mwamba 46-15 at Kakamega showground while KCB crushed the2015 and 2015 champions Nakuru 49-6 at Ruaraka Den. Kabras Sugar, who are unbeaten in eight matches, upheld their five points lead after improving their tally to 40 points as KCB stayed second in the league with 35 points. Quins’ bonus point victory also saw them remain third in the log with 31 points. Nondies moved three places to fourth with 23 points after they beat Mean Machine 17-3. Strathmore pulled the biggest upset of the weekend when they stunned Homeboyz 16-14 at the Jamhuri Park showground as Menengai Oilers also shocked host Blak Blad 24-13 at Kenyatta University.  