World Under-20 5,000m champion Edward Zakayo is relishing the prospect of upsetting Geoffrey Kamworor in the World Cross Country Championships to be held in Aarhus, Denmark in March. Zakayo was voted the Most Promising boy during the Sports Personality of the Year Awards in Mombasa last Friday ahead of his close friend World Under-20 10,000m champion Rhonex Kipruto who came second. The Form Three student at Kapsait High School in West Pokot has now sets his sights on the World Cross Country Championships where Kenya is expected to defend its overall title. "This a good start for me because my hard work has been recognized. In future I know I can be the overall Sports Personality of the Year," Zakayo said. After a brilliant performance last season, the soft-spoken athlete is keen on booking a ticket to Aarhus when he lines up for the national trials in the senior category. "It was a good season for me and I'm looking forward to a better one this year. It will be my first time in the cross country event and my target is to make it to the team that will be heading to Denmark," said Zakayo. Asked about taking on two-time World Cross Country champion Kamworor, the youngster said he is all braced for the challenge. "Kamworor is a good athlete and I respect him a lot but this time round I will be competing against him. I believe in my training and my focus is on preparing well to win the race," said the athlete. The national trials will be held in Eldoret on February 23 which is the first time they are being held outside Nairobi. The trials, according to the Athletics Kenya Central Rift chairman Abraham Mutai, will be held in the afternoon just like in international events. "We want the event to resemble the real championship which normally takes place in the afternoon. We expect a good number of athletes who will be selected from their respective regions and disciplined forces to grace the event," said Mutai. The team selected will then head to Kigari, Embu for residential training camp ahead of the global competition. Zakayo's star started shining in 2017 when he bagged silver in 3,000m at the World Under-18 Championships in Nairobi after clocking a personal best of 7:49:17 behind his rival Ethiopia's Selemon Barega who won in 7:47:16. He started the 2018 season with a bronze medal in 5,000m during the Commonwealth Games before heading to World Under-20 Championships in Tampere, Finland where he beat Barega to the 5,00m gold while his compatriot Stanley Waithaka was second. He also bagged gold over the same distance in the African Championships held in Asaba, Nigeria.  