Police in Subukia have launched a manhunt for suspects who brutally murdered a five-year-old girl after defiling her. Subukia police boss Jacinta Mwarania on Wednesday said a team of detectives have launched investigations in a bid to arrest the culprits. The mutilated body was found dumped in a thicket near the Nakuru-Subukia road on Monday afternoon. “Police have launched investigations into the incident and will soon get hold of the suspects who are still at large,” said Ms Mwarania. RESIDENTS SHOCKED The incident sent shock waves across the region and left residents dumbfounded. The minor’s mother, Ms Ann Mwende, who works at a local pub, said she last saw her daughter on Saturday, a day after she went missing when she visited her at her grandmother’s house where she was staying. The emotional Ms Mwende wept uncontrollably as she narrated how she bought shoes for her daughter and took her to a salon before she went back to work. PHONE CALL “I was shocked when I received a call on Sunday and informed that my daughter had gone missing. This forced me to rush back home where I reported the matter at Subukia Police Station as we continued with the search,” said Ms Mwende. Her hopes to see her daughter alive again were dashed by a phone call she received on Monday informing her that a mutilated body of a young girl had been recovered dumped in thicket by the roadside. Ms Mwende rushed to the scene only to find that the body was that of her missing daughter whom she recognised by the bracelet she had bought for her. EYES GORGED OUT Her eyes were gorged out, with the flesh on the scalp and face removed. Shantel's grandmother, Ms Eunice Wangui, said the minor went missing while on her way home from church on Sunday. She wondered why someone would do such an inhuman act to her grandchild whom she said was in good terms with other children while the family had no grudge with anyone. “I cannot find a reason why someone would kill such an innocent child. Shantel was a lovely and disciplined young girl who was at peace with everyone. I am calling upon the police to speed up their investigations so as to arrest the killers,” said Ms Wangui The police urged the family and residents to be patient as they track down the killers of the innocent girl.  