A delegation from the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) on Thursday completed a two-day fact-finding mission in which it assessed Nairobi’s preparations to host next year’s IAAF World Under-20 Championships. The six-day competition from July 7 to 12, 2020 comes hot on the heels of Nairobi’s successful hosting of the 2017 IAAF World Under-18 Championships at Kasarani. The visit by the high-ranking officials from the global track and field governing body also coincided with the terror attack on Riverside Drive which blotted an otherwise incident free spell in Kenya. It was, therefore, reassuring when the IAAF team’s head, Jackie Brock-Doyle, maintained that this isolated incident would, in no way, throw the spanner in the works, and that the federation was confident of Nairobi staging yet another successful championship. The swift reaction by security forces demonstrated Kenya’s improved state of preparedness for such attacks to which no nation is immune. For instance, shortly after London won the hosting rights for the 2012 Olympic Games, there was a terror attack in the English capital. London, nonetheless, went ahead to stage memorable games. With such reassurance, the ball is now squarely on the court of the local organisers, who should pull out all stops to ensure we stage another excellent week of track and field action. Government bureaucracy in releasing funding for preparations should be eliminated, and the Local Organising Committee appointed in good time. Also, refurbishing of the Moi International Sports Centre must start immediately. Since the closing ceremony of the 2017 global championships, dust has gathered at the stadium with equipment either vandalised or broken down. The synthetic training track that was to be put up in 2017 at the Kenyatta University, which will host the athletes, is yet to be laid out. Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa must crack the whip to ensure the all-too-familiar last-minute rush doesn’t rear its ugly head once again. Successful organisation of next year’s championships will hold Kenya in good stead as we angle to host the senior World Championships in 2025.  