The pen I’m holding right now is heavy, the hand not cooperating, my eyes teary and the words meandering in my brain in an attempt to disorganise me. Pain and agony have taken over my life now. I have lost control. I am weak. Fragile. I consider him my 'godfather' in football matters for he showed me the ways to design my art and go about my business. I shared a lot with him offline, we hang out together and enjoyed what brought us together, football. His parents named him James Oduor Radido, we simply called him 'Cobra'. He would tell me what to write, do, or say when discussing local football. I have so much to write about him, but I cannot do that in one sitting or one piece. I am only used to writing compliments and jokes about him, not tributes. This piece is so alien to my writing imaginations that penning it is laden with teardrops. Teardrops that wet my writing pad and drift my focus away. Even in my weirdest imaginations, I never knew this would come up one day. Apparently, I had already prepared a birthday post for my mentor, and then this happened. I will still wish him anyway. "Happy Birthday O to the D.. U!!" He literally grabbed me and put me on the screens. I remember still the conversation we had on phone that evening: Him: Oya Jamboka, uko? Me: Niko tu mtaani Cobra. Him: Unado? Come Parki tuue hii show one time, hata nishaongea na Man Petit (Samuel Gacharira - Nation Sport trainee sub-editor) pia anacome. Me: Ok sawa man, Parki na wapi? Him: Niulize hio swali ukishatoka mtaani… giggles Ok. That’s how Wadau TV was born with me as the co-host. I met Cobra because of football when we all joined Team Hippos for the KPL Fans Fun Day tournament four years ago. He was witty and sometimes “careless” (or so I thought) in his arguments for he never minced his words. He would silence anyone for he was loaded with facts marinated in humour. I later learned that was his way of drawing attention before passing an important message to his concerned audience. He would crack jokes at anything, anyone and any time. He taught me a lot and made me meet people I never imagined I would have. Have you ever played football talking and issuing instructions to teammates at the same time? Yes, he ensured I did that. He took me to Railways Wanderers team every Thursday after Wadau TV shooting sessions to play with some distinguished teammates like Otiende Amollo, the current Rarieda Member of Parliament among others. Man, I had to fit in. I went places I thought were way beyond my reach. Cobra pushed me there. Literally, like ingia hapa wewe (get in there)! I tried out foreign cuisines just because he insisted: “Keke umekula madondo chapo sana, leo wacha nikupeleke masehemu sehemu.” He never ignored any idea and was always ready to try new things out. A creative fella and a team leader who ensured everyone was happy at work and felt at home. Sometimes, the mood would be low, either at Wadau TV shooting sessions or at Team Hippos and he would lift the spirits. He had a way of doing things. He had a way of cheering people up. He had a way out of everything. Forget about memes on David de Gea saving you from anything, Cobra did that better than the Spaniard. He encouraged me to continue blogging about local football. Challenged me that I did not come from Kisumu, only to lose hope kwa wajanja mjini. He made me realise that I was part of the wajanja caste. I am proud of my journey, thanks to mtoto wa Kariakor. I salute him. I am still unable to come to terms with him not being around but his legacy and everything he dreamt of at Wadau TV will live on. The production must continue and the legacy must be written the way he wanted it. I have lost a soldier, a problem-solver, a leader, a brother, a team player and a hero. My godfather. Fare thee well brother, till we meet again.   Football Kenya Federation Nick Mwendwa led tributes.