One person has been arrested while several police officers are under investigation over the theft of an impounded car from Karatina Police Station. The officers of the Mathira East Divisional headquarters, according to official police communication, are being investigated for aiding the theft of the minivan last Wednesday. Police records show that the vehicle, a Nissan Serena registration KBS 517 Z, had been impounded the day before on traffic violations. It was taken to that police station and the driver identified as Kelvin King’ori held for driving without insurance. The vehicle also had defective brake lights and a cracked windscreen. THEFT Nyeri county Police Commander Ali Nuno told the Nation on Sunday that the driver had been released on free bond pending arraignment on Monday. “The driver was instructed to report to court to answer to the traffic offences,” Mr Nuno said on Sunday However, in an intriguing turn of events, the vehicle disappeared from the station yard the following day. Records indicate that it was found missing at around 11pm so a search was launched. “It is still unclear how the vehicle left the police station but we decided to handle it as a case of theft,” the police boss said. ARREST Two days later, the vehicle was traced to Kasarani in Nairobi in a joint operation. “We circulated the signal to our colleagues in Nairobi and the vehicle was finally located and the driver arrested,” Mr Nuno said. Mr King'ori will on Monday be taken to court on charges of theft and traffic violations. Regarding the probe on the police officers, Mr Nuno said, "This is a matter we will pursue [to its end]. If the officers had a hand in it, they will be treated as suspects because their role is to protect property." LAPTOP CASE This is not the first time a case of theft has emerged at a police station. About a month ago, a police officer was arrested for allegedly stealing a laptop from one of the offices at Nyeri's Central Police Station. According to police records, the signals office at the divisional police headquarters was broken into and a laptop, computer accessories and correspondence files stolen. Mr Nuno told the Nation that the items were later recovered in the house of Police Constable Macdona Ouma at the station police lines.   Policeman arrested after items stolen from Nyeri divisional police headquarters found in his house.