A Catholic priest has condemned two MPs Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati) and Moses Kuria (Gatundu South) over their recent attack on President Uhuru Kenyatta, calling them agents of incitement. While preaching at St Monica Catholic Church in Nakuru town on Sunday, Father Moses Muraya said it was wrong for the two lawmakers to make utterances that are likely to incite the public. “I have been in Nakuru for long and witnessed the first tribal clashes in 1992 and I know some of the utterances by the leaders such as Ngunjiri and Kuria could trigger violence,” said the priest. He called on the duo to respect President Kenyatta, saying he represents the national government unlike them, who only represent constituencies. “If there is anybody who knows better about politically instigated violence that leader is Ngunjiri and he should refrain from such careless talks in the public,” said Mr Muraya. NAKURU DEMO Last week, Mr Ngunjiri led a protest in Nakuru town to criticise the President over his ‘washenzi remark’ that was targeted at central Kenya leaders who claimed Mr Kenyatta has neglected the region in favour of launching development projects in opposition strongholds. Mr Ngunjiri took umbrage over Mr Kenyatta’s failure to publicly disown his close ally and former Jubilee Party vice-chairman David Murathe, who is pushing to block Deputy President William Ruto from ascending to the presidency in 2022. “If Mr Kenyatta is tired of leading this country, he should immediately call for fresh elections so that we end this political mongering,” he said. MT KENYA DEVELOPMENT On the other hand, Mr Kuria sparked a storm akin to a rebellion in Mt Kenya region on New Year’s eve when he casually accused the President of ignoring his political backyard. “As we enter 2019, you (voters) must think … our responsibility is not just to vote and after voting, we (the government that we form) take development to other regions. That kind of nonsense must stop,” he said at Thika Stadium on New Year. Mr Kuria added: “We want the President to also commission water projects, roads and electricity when he comes here. We were with him in Kisumu where he commissioned a road project, but when he visits (Kiambu) he only issues certificates to recovering alcoholics.” His remarks and Mr Murathe stance on DP Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid have caused a political storm in the last two weeks, a tempest that keeps gaining strength despite efforts to turn the focus on Mr Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda.   He is a man who divides opinion. To his admirers, he is bold, courageous and heroic.