A Nairobi court has allowed police to continue holding five suspects arrested over the Dusit hotel attack for 30 days to allow detectives complete investigations. Milimani Law Courts Senior Principal Magistrate Martha Mutuku ordered their detention, arguing that the charges they are facing are serious and investigating officer Monica Githaiga might be required to travel to various parts of the country. The suspects are Joel Ng’ang’a Wainaina and Oliver Kanyago Muthee, both taxi drivers, Ms Gladys Kaari Justus, an M-Pesa agent in Meru, Mr Guleid Abdihakim, a Canadian, and Mr Osmas Ibrahim. Two of the suspects were arrested on Wednesday morning in Nairobi during police raids in houses suspected to have been hideouts. In an affidavit filed in court, Ms Githaiga said they were likely to prefer charges of conspiracy to commit a terrorist act, provision of property and services for commission of a terrorist act and being members of a terrorist group. REGISTRATIONThe affidavit reveals that several gadgets were found in the car - registration number KCN 340E - which the attackers are believed to have used on January 15 prior to the attack. The items are a damaged laptop and two mobile phones; only one of the phones had a sim card. A forensic examination indicated that the mobile phone was registered under the name Erik. Further, one identity card was allegedly used to register 11 other mobile phone numbers. The key suspected attackers registered nine mobile phones numbers - Mr Ali Salim Gichunge three and his wife Violet Kemunto Omwoyo six. Prosecutors Duncan Ondimu and Eddy Kadede told the court that they need more time to analyse data on the phones. The case will be mentioned on February 18. TERRORISM The assault that took place on January 15 spilled over into the next day, leaving 21 people dead and more than 700 rescued. Condemning the attack during a press conference on Wednesday, President Uhuru Kenyatta said Kenya will not be intimidated into relenting on the war against terrorism. "We will seek out every person involved in the funding, planning and execution of this heinous act. We will pursue them wherever they will be until they are held to account," he said. Mr Kenyatta thanked everyone who participated in the rescue mission. "I take note of Kenyans who took to social media to spread hope and criticise false information. You have shown the world bravery, patriotism and love."   We formed a single file and gave priority to the elderly and pregnant women.