The football fraternity was thrown into mourning Wednesday morning after it was confirmed that football enthusiast James Oduor alias Cobra was among those killed in Tuesday's terror attack at Dusit complex in Westlands, Nairobi. Cobra, who worked at LG Company in the Customer Service Department situated at 14 Riverside, was trapped inside the offices on Tuesday evening when the attacks started. "What's happening at 14 Riverside fam? Any news from out there?" he posted on Twitter. Coincidentally, Wednesday was his birthday. He is survived by his wife and one child. Football Kenya Federation Nick Mwendwa led tributes for the man described by sports journalists as a 'ray of hope' in Kenyan football. "Fare thee well my friend. Your good spirit will live on in football. You did your part. We shall do ours and remember you," Mwendwa tweeted. "Devastated, shocked, teary and in utmost denial. How can I even commemorate you? Today ought to have been your birthday, but the contrary happened. The terrorists may have robbed your precious life, but they have not robbed your great name nor greatest heart amongst us. Rest peacefully in power Brother, teammate and captain James Oduor Cobra," said Japheth Ochutsi. Shocked to the bones, I can't believe this harmless, happy and Charismatic soul is no more. RIP James Oduor Cobra safiri Salama ndugu." "Untimely, Devastating, Sad learning of your demise. We will miss you in the game, Rest Peacefully Odu." Rodgers Omondi on Facebook. "Jah know I have lost a very good friend." said sports journalist Jeff Kinyanjui on Facebook. My mentor.... My inspire.. My mtaani fitness coach .... My neighbour....... My close brother.... Sina la kusema ...R.I.P James Oduor Cobra - Harambee Stars goalkeeper Patrick Matasi on Facebook. "You have won Al Shabaab. We are broken, hurt and confused. Rest In Peace James Oduor Cobra. What a man, what a friend. Local football is so much poorer." - Kerubo Momanyi on Facebook. "Rest in peace Osiepa. James Oduor Cobra .... This broke my heart. This broke my heart." Beryl Ringos on Facebook.  