The family of Kisii journalist Johnson Nyakundi, who was found dead in his house on Tuesday, wants to police to thoroughly investigate the matter. Mr Nyakundi, a former cameraman for Newstar, Mwanyagetinge and Voice of Victory TV stations, was last seen two days before Christmas. A foul smell led neighbours to his house in Jogoo estate. POSTMORTEM Mr Nyakundi’s brother Douglas Moseti said an autopsy would be carried out to determine the cause of death. “We will determine our next step after the postmortem this week. We will then move his body from Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital mortuary where it was taken by police,” Mr Moseti said, adding they want a better and more secure facility. “I am saddened by the death of my brother. We want police to do proper investigations." County Director of Criminal Investigations, Mr James Kipsoi, said their work will officially begin after they receive the postmortem report. BLOOD Mr Nyakundi, popularly referred to as Embata, attended an end-of-year party organised by Kisii-based journalists at Blue Nile Hotel on December 23 Mr Job Ongaga, who worked with Mr Nyakundi at Voice of Victory, said, "We are yet to know what caused his death. A neighbour was alarmed by a stench from his house and after consulting the landlord and others, they decided to break in. They found his body on the bed. When we peeped in through the window, we saw a lot of blood on his bed." Police sealed off the area for their probe. The journalist was the first born in a family of seven and had lived alone since separating from his wife about four years ago. His friends and colleagues pointed to a long marital dispute with the woman who worked with the Teacher’s Service Commission. “He confided in us on how he was one day picked by goons from his house and taken up a hill near Kisii town. He was roughed up and warned against going near his ex-wife,” said a close friend, who sought anonymity. MYSTERIOUS Kisii scribes interim chairman Joshua Araka said Mr Nyakundi was always jovial and was among the longest serving journalist in the region. “A number of us entered the field and found Nyakundi actively and passionately working as a TV cameraman. He was a humble and dedicated journalist,” said Mr Araka. He termed the journalist's death mysterious and hoped police and other agencies will combine efforts to unravel it. In 2009, the body of Francis Nyaruri, a journalist based in Kisii was found in Kodera forest, two weeks after he went missing on January 15, 2009. His hands were bound, his eyes gouged out and his lower jaw broken.   He was last seen before Christmas.