High handicapper Seth Oburu emerged the overall winner in the 2019 Sunset Golfing Society grand finale tournament at the par 70 Nyanza Golf Club course on Saturday. The handicap 28 Oburu carded 19 points in the first nine and an improved back nine’s 20 for a total of 39 points. He won by three points from the Sunset men winner Ben Bella. Bella won the men's title with a combined 19 and 17 for 36 points, while veteran golfer Sam Onyango was second on 34 points. Finishing third in with a score of 31 points was David Owino who beat Carilus Ademba, Paul Gondi and sixth placed John Juma by one point. Leading the Nyanza Golf Club members was Albert Ojonyo with a score of 36 points, after beating Yobesh Oyaro on count back. Apaka Rangita was third on 35 points, and finishing in fourth place was Bob Odhiambo with a score of 33 points. Taking the Sunset Ladies prize was Ptricia Odima, who posted 27 points while Rosemary Obara was the Nyanza lady winner with a score of 30 points. Sylvester Owuor was the sponsor winner with a score of 30 points while Julius Omollo emerged the Sunset guest champion with 36 points, beating Robert Ogindo by one point. The event attracted a field of 93 players who included a number of players from as far away as Mombasa, Royal and Muthaiga golf clubs. At Kakamega Sports Club, handicap 18 James Anzabwa needed only five pars and one birdie for his 35 points which was good enough to earn him the overall title in the Mulembe Golf tournament at the tough playing Kakamega Sports Club course on Saturday. Only 18 players managed to post 30 points and over on the long playing course. The long-hitting Dismas Indiza of Mumias was the best professional with a score of 34 points. Taking the Category A for players playing off handicap one to 10, was Nandi Bears Club’s handicap five golfer Elly Barno who carded 33 points to win by one point from L.Siayi on 32 while G. Njoroge was third on 30 points after beating Sosten Biwott from Nandi on countback. Eldoret’s Esther Chumo was the lady winner in this category. At Ruiru Sports Club, Patrick Theche posted nett 69 to win the Monthly Mug by a shot from Daniel Mukei on nett 70 with D. Kamau finishing third on 71 nett. The ladies title went to S. Patel on 73 nett after beating Susan Kanyora on countback. Salome Kamau carded 77 nett to finish third and the nines went to Peter Kimani and Paul Kiarie on 33 and 32 nett and leading the guests was Elvis Nduati on 80 nett, while Chris Andrea won the gross with a score of four over par 76 gross.  