Fatuma Tabwara, the newly appointed vice chairperson of the National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC), has died. In a statement on Sunday, the commission's chairman, Dr Samuel Kobia, said they were informed that Ms Tabwara died after falling ill at a wedding ceremony in Kwale County in the morning. The ceremony took place in Bowa village. Dr Kobia said Ms Tabwara was pronounced dead on arrival at Diani Beach Hospital. EMPOWERMENT Ms Tabwara had a Master's degree in Education Planning and Administration, from Mt Kenya University, and a Bachelor's degree in Education, from Kenyatta University. The NCIC took note of her focus on empowering the youth and women on peace and cohesion, during her short period in office. "The commission and the country have lost a key person who worked selflessly in ensuring a cohesive and harmonious nation," Dr Kobia said. He added, "At a function in Kwale yesterday (on Saturday), she made a passionate appeal to Kenyans to live together as brothers and sisters regardless of their ethnic backgrounds." PREDECESSOR Ms Tabwara becomes the second NCIC vice chair to pass away in office. About seven years ago, former vice chair Mary Onyango succumbed to breast cancer. Ms Tabwara took the position in November after the new NCIC team, led by Dr Kobia, was sworn in at the Supreme Court, a ceremony overseen by Chief Justice David Maraga. The new team took over from the one that Francis ole Kaparo led. UHURU'S MESSAGE In his condolence message to Ms Tabwara's family, President Uhuru Kenyatta described her as a great national leader, role model and an outstanding champion of the rights of women and the girl-child, especially in Kwale. He further said Ms Tabwara was a person of enormous influence and that the many girls and women she mentored will miss her wise counsel and guidance. President Kenyatta said Ms Tabwara will particularly be remembered for the role she played in formulation of the sexual harassment policy in Kwale. “It is very sad that we have lost one of the promising women leaders in the Coast region. In this hour of sorrow and grief, I convey my deepest sympathies and heartfelt condolences to her family and friends,” he said, and prayed for their strength and courage. KWALE SHOCKED Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya said he learned with profound shock of Ms Tabwara's death. "I take this opportunity to join the entire community of Kwale in mourning the passing on of a great leader who was so instrumental in our county agenda and vision of transforming the lives of Kwale's people," Mr Mvurya said. He said Ms Tabwara was a dedicated advocate of the people's welfare and that she served in full capacity, first as a commissioner in the county's public service board and later as political advisor in his office. The governor said Ms Tabwara's death is a major loss not only to Kwale but also to the whole nation. "At this moment of great sadness, I can only say let the almighty God grant her eternal peace in heaven. To the family and friends, I send my family's heartfelt condolences and pray that Allah strengthens you to overcome this great sorrow," he said.  