Two candidates for the LSK president post kicked off their campaigns in Meru, promising to make the club more vibrant and modern. LSK Nairobi branch chairperson Charles Kanjama and LSK council member Maria Mbeneka promised to speed up devolution of services and inclusivity. Ms Mbeneka said her first task would be to ensure LSK embraces technology and speeds up delivery of practicing certificates. She also vowed to start a programme to match students with pupil masters while they are still at Kenya School of Law. Speaking during an end-of-year dinner hosted by the Meru bar association, Ms Mbeneka said many learners had difficulties securing pupil masters of their desired areas of specialisation due to various hindrances. FACING PRESSURE She also pointed out that many of the 17,000 lawyers in the country were suffering from alcoholism due to stress and other work related pressures, and pledged to start a programme to helps members cope. “Our members are falling by the wayside, not because they want to. The pressure of our work is that you are dealing with people’s problems and we are under pressure to deliver results. Depression is catching up with many members,” said Ms Mbeneka. Mr Kanjama said he was fighting for a strong and more united LSK that was independent from state capture. He said the best suited leader was one who would not lean towards any political side so as to be objective when making criticisms. STRONGER LSK “We want an LSK that is strong and has a strong voice to fight for the rights of the people and rule of law. We also want to expand our space by ensuring we have more opportunities,” said Mr Kanjama. Central Imenti MP Kirima Nguchine speaking at the event, told the lawyers should not shy away from embracing whichever political side they felt had their best interests. Two other candidates, Ms Harriette Chiggai, who is the current vice president of LSK and Mr Nelson Havi have expressed interest in succeeding the current president Mr Allen Gichuhi. The campaigns officially kicked off on Friday last week and the election will be held in February 27, 2020.  