Mathare United bounced back with an impressive 4-0 win over Nzoia Sugar in a Kenyan Premier League (KPL) match played at Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani on Sunday afternoon. After a sluggish start by both teams, the Slum Boys took the lead in the 37th minute through Clifford Alwanga, who headed in James Kinyanjui’s cross from the left flank. Daniel Otieno doubled the lead in the 52nd minute with a curved volley after Kinyanjui found him with a nice cut back on the edge of the box. Kinyanjui made it 3-0 in the 71st minute, looping the ball beautifully past an advancing Nzoia custodian Humphrey Katasi after a good through ball by Tyson Otieno, who had come in for Clifford Alwanga in the 62nd minute. Tyson finished the job in style two minutes later taking on two defenders before unleashing a shot that beat Katasi from inside the box. Slum Boys tactician Salim Ali lauded his charges saying; "We played badly in our last two matches, but I'm impressed with the performance of the boys today. We missed three key players in our last match against AFC Leopards and they (Andrew Juma, Kevin Kimani, and Roy Okal) played a key role today. In the last two matches, we also conceded six goals in total, but we have kept a clean sheet today and that is good," he said. With the mid-season transfer window opening on January 1, Salim also revealed they are keen on strengthening their attack. "We create a lot of chances that we don't convert and we are looking for a clinical finisher. We also need to seal some loopholes in defence and midfield, but with our philosophy of giving the youth a chance, don't expect big names, we will have some exciting young players joining the team," he added. Nzoia coach Collins Omondi blamed fixture congestion for the loss. "It is the festive season and the Kenyan culture allows for rest and celebrations during this time and my players had already switched off psychologically. Some teams have a long break during this time while we are here playing. This particular fixture itself had changes in venue and date without us (Nzoia) being consulted and this is not professional at all. KPL has to improve on how they plan the fixtures and make changes," he lamented. The league now takes a break and will resume on January 4. The mid-season transfer window will close on January 31.  