The trial of former military officer Peter Mwaura Mugure following the murder of his estranged wife and two children has been delayed as his plea taking has been deferred for the third time. Mr Mugure, a former Kenya Air Force Major, is accused of killing Joyce Syombua, her 11-year-old daughter Shanice Maua and her son Prince Michael, 5. When the matter came up at the High Court on Friday, the State told the court that Mr Mugure was not ready to answer to the murder charge because his mental assessment report was unavailable. Senior Assistant Director of Public Prosecutions Peter Mailanyi said the suspect underwent a mental examination but the psychiatrist declined to compile and sign a report. Mr Mailanyi said the psychiatrist at Nyeri Referral Hospital had insisted on interviewing the next-of-kin of Mr Mugure before compiling and signing the report. MOTHER UNAVAILABLE It also emerged that defence lawyer Cliff Ombeta had tried in vain to contact Mr Mugure's mother for the medical test. Lawyer Wanjiku Muguro, who was standing in for Mr Ombeta, informed the court that the mother said she could not travel from Kayole in Nairobi to Nyeri "I will be seeking further instructions from Mr Ombeta. He has been trying to get in touch with the accused’s family," Ms Muguro said. MUGURE'S REQUEST For the first time, Mr Mugure broke his silence and sought to address the court. He asked Justice Jairus Ngaah, "Am I allowed to address this court?” But Justice Ngaah informed him that he was being represented, therefore, he could only address the court through his lawyer. Mr Mugure declined to speak through the lawyer and tried in vain to seek audience with her while being led out of the courtroom. He also tried to speak to a journalist but police quickly led him away. SO FAR Mr Mugure was first scheduled to answer to the murder charge on December 5 but he did not for lack of a mental assessment report. A psychiatrist at Nanyuki Referral Hospital demanded to talk to Mr Mugure’s relatives before compiling a report. The State told the court that the demand was questionable and noted that the mental examination will take place in Nyeri, not Nanyuki. Mr Mugure was taken back to court on December 17 but he did not plead to the charge on grounds that he had not been assessed by a psychiatrist at Nyeri Referral Hospital. The plea taking was deferred to January 10, 2020.  