Some of the more than 2,000 people affected by floods in Tana Delta have resolved sell some of their property to raise money for food. The flood victims said they have resorted to the move following biting starvation in camps. The residents have taken to the streets to sell some of their property while some have resorted to begging following the delay in delivery of food supplies earlier by promised by the government. In an interview with the Nation, the victims said they have run out of food as their farms were washed away by floods, leaving them at the risk of starvation. FUNDRAISING "We have placed ourselves in committees, looking forward to raising Sh300,000 for food supplies that can last us for two weeks. We can’t sit and watch our children die," said Shahid Yakub. Mr Shahid noted that food prices in the local markets have shot up immensely, and the affected victims cannot afford them. Each household is expected to raise not less than Sh500, while more will be raised from well-wishers. The locals noted that despite pledges of help from the county and national governments, no official has visited them so far. "We have only seen the Kenya Red Cross Society team coming to our aide. They have rescued us, given us tents and nets, but our government only communicates on television; they are yet to act on what they say," said Sadiya Awadh. FOOD PRICES Tomatoes in Garsenn and Hola markets are currently selling at Sh15 per piece, while vegetables like kales and spinach have become a rare commodity. Villages such as Galili, Dipe and Onkolde have totally been submerged in water, forcing more than 300 families to move to Minjila junction. Tana River County Commissioner Oning'oi Ole'Sosio said that government is determined to ensure all victims are catered for as soon as possible. "The government has dispatched food supplies and they will be here any day from today. We only ask for a little patience though we know it is not easy," he said. More than 1,500 bags of relief food are expected to be shared among 10,000 people affected by floods in the county.  