Harambee Stars striker Jesse Were has now spent four years in Zambia, turning out for reigning champions Zesco United. He is currently their record goal scorer having netted 91 goals so far across all competitions. The 2016 Caf African Player of the Year nominee joined the team in 2016 from former Kenyan champions Tusker FC. He says he has enjoyed his stay in Zambia. “It was a surprise last minute deal when I joined Zesco United in 2016. When the offer was tabled, the first thing I remembered is that Zambia had won the Cup of Nations in 2012 and that to me proved they were a footballing nation. I was convinced they had a good league and I decided to come try out my luck here,” the Kenyan International told Zesco United’s media team. “I found David “Calabar” Owino at the club and he had already spent a season here and he really helped me settle down. It was a big challenge first as I did not get into the starting team fast as I had anticipated but as time went by I learnt their style of play and how the coach wanted the team to play and I eventually become an important player in the squad,” he added. TOUGH LEAGUE Were says there is no much difference between Zambia and Kenya as far as other non-footballing aspects are concerned but believes the Zambian Super League is tougher than the Kenyan Premier League (KPL). “I enjoy the food here – it is not any different from the variety in Kenya and everything else is just the same. The weather though is a bit hot but I have totally adapted and it feels like home.” “The ZSL is tough. Unlike in Kenya where top teams have it easy against the teams on the lower end of the table, in Zambia even those teams considered small cause upsets and you really can’t tell a difference in the matches – the tempo is high, it doesn’t matter which team you are facing.” Were scored 16 goals in his first season in Zambia to help the team win the league but says that was his toughest season. “We had to win the league on the last day and that was not easy. I was happy to play my part in helping the club achieve its goal.” Were now shoulders the goal-scoring burden at the club after the exit of Lazarus Kambole who joined PSL giants Kaizer Chiefs earlier this year. His contract expires at the end of this month but he says he is happy with his situation at the club. “It is not easy trying to fill in the big boots left by Kambole and now being a senior player in the team I am expected to help the new players coming in to settle in fast and at the same time the other player look up to me for guidance even in match situations. It’s a challenge that comes with a lot of pressure but that is part of what the job of a footballer entails and I am happy to play my part.”  