Harambee Stars captain Victor Wanyama and Kenya Sevens skipper Andrew Amonde are among sportsmen and women who were awarded the Head of State Commendation (HSC) by President Uhuru Kenyatta. A gazette notice dated December 20, 2019 lists Mary Moraa (400m sprinter), Timothy Cheruiyot (1500m), Bob John Oyugi (veteran football coach), Rosemary Achieng Owino (tennis coach) and Timothy Nabea Muriithi among the recipients of HSC. Wanyama, who plies his trade with English premier League side Tottenham Hotspur, has been a shining light in Kenyan football and recently captained the Harambee Stars in the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations. "It is an honour to have received The Head of State Commendation from His Excellency President Uhuru Kenyatta. May this recognition inspire future generations of Sports men and women of our great nation, KENYA," tweeted Wanyama a few hours after the list was made public. Amonde was among the few senior players who made a return in the last four legs to save Kenya rom relegation from the World Sevens Series. Kenya Sevens escaped relegation by a whisker, finishing 13th and two places above the cut of zone with 37 points last season. Mary Moraa, who is the national 400m champion, made a mark after she qualified for the semi-final of women’s 400m race at the 2019 World Athletics Championships in Doha. Timothy Cheruiyot was also awarded the HSC. He won the men's 1,500 metres world title in Doha in October in an astonishing run, leading from gun to tape in a time of 3min 29.26sec. The 23-year-old's victory put to an end a painful run of silver medal performances including the 2017 world final in London behind compatriot Elijah Manangoi. Another recipient of this year’s HSC is the director of coaching, training and development Bob John Oyugi. His work involves developing of the youths through Sports combined with education, job creation through training of youth coaches. Tennis coach Rosemary Owino also received the state commendation after guiding Team Kenya back to Davis Cup Euro/Africa Group Two Tennis championship after 13 years in the cold. FKF NEC Member for Eastern Muriithi Nabea was also among the recipients of this year’s HSC award. The names of recipients of the awards are usually announced by the President every year while marking the Jamhuri Day celebrations on December 12. The awards are given in recognition of outstanding or distinguished services rendered to the nation in various capacities and responsibilities by the recipients.  