Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi has regretted that no meaningful development projects have been implemented in central Kenya despite the region receiving over Sh200 billion since the advent of devolution. Mr Wamatangi noted that since 2013, the counties have been receiving huge allocations from the National Treasury and in own revenue, which have today risen to almost Sh50 billion per year, but there is little to show for it. Mr Wamatangi, the only senator from the region serving a second term, attributed this to bad policies, with governors failing to focus on people-oriented projects that can create great economic and social impact, as well as embezzlement by unscrupulous officials. KIAMBU BILLIONS He cited Kiambu as an example, noting that the county has received more than Sh70 billion since the advent of devolution but there has been little development. Mr Wamatangi said the county operated on a budget of over Sh50 billion during Governor William Kabogo’s tenure and that it had received more than Sh20 billion in the past two years under Governor Ferdinand Waititu’s leadership. The senator, who is a member of the Public Accounts and Investments Committee (PAIC) said that since 2014, he has been pushing for an increase in the allocation to the county, including going to court, adding that Kiambu will receive Sh13 billion in 2020. THEFT He lamented that his efforts have been watered down by poor management of finances by the county executive, which he said had led to theft. “The main concern is that, as a senator, I have been fighting to have the county allocations increased and ensure that it gets to the accounts of Kiambu. But when you interrogate how that money you have been fighting for has been used, there is nothing to show and that is the reason for my aggression when fighting for accountability because this trend cannot be allowed to continue,” he said. He asked the county Speaker and MCAs to ensure transparency and accountability and warned the executive that it will no longer be business as usual. Mr Wamatangi reiterated that the governors of Kiambu, Murang’a, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Nyandarua, Embu, Meru, Tharaka-Nithi and Laikipia should form a committed economic bloc to help them pool resources to accelerate the pace of their economic growth.  