This year’s Kusi Ideas Festival kicked off in Sunday morning at the Intare Conference arena, in Kigali, Rwanda. The event promises an illuminating discussion about the future of the continent. The festival organised by Nation Media Group brings together various stakeholders and leaders led by Rwandan President Paul Kagame, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) President Felix Tshisekedi, and African Union Infrastructure Envoy Raila Odinga among other dignitaries.   PAINFUL HISTORY Speaking at the opening ceremony, Nation Media Group Board Chairman Wilfred Kiboro said that festival was taken to Rwanda because the country represents the possibilities that societies in Africa, particularly those with less painful history can achieve.   “We are celebrating 60 years as Nation Media Group, we thought it would be good for the continent to have a conversation about its future. That’s why we are here today,” Dr. Kiboro said.   “We thought of bringing together Africans to talk on what they would like the continent to be for the youth. This Kusi Ideas meet is for the young people to talk about what they’d like to see in the next 60 years in terms of infrastructure, politics, education, health, agriculture and technology.” Kusi Ideas will provide a strategic platform to look back at Africa over the past 60 years and set the pace for the next 60 years going forward. OPPORTUNITIESAfrican countries can draw great lessons from the discussions.   The discussions at the festival will focus on four key themes; Feeding Africa's Billions: Who will Grow The Food, Who will Get To Eat?, Towards a Borderless Continent - Climate Change; Winning the Fight - Guarding The Gates; and Human Security in Africa. Speaking on the sidelines, Mr Odinga said he will champion for African governments to provide more opportunities for the youths to thrive.   “As leaders, we need to look at where we are headed and not dwell on the past. When we start this, it means we will be planning for the continents future-its young people. They didn’t really want to know much about the physical boundaries but what economic securities we will provide for them. That is why I am here,” Mr Odinga said.  