To say that the increase in cases of sexual abuse and defilement against women and girls has become alarming and horrifying is an understatement. If the almost daily reports of the rape and defilement of children by men of all ages is anything to go by, we are headed for a disaster. LOOMING CRISIS Disturbingly, a big number of sexual abuse and related criminality subjected at girls are perpetrated by people whom the society entrusts them with, such as teachers, police officers and close relatives. Those who molest and sexually abuse children, as well as other rapists, should be subjected to the harshest and toughest of penalties. They are not fit to live in a civilised society. To avoid the looming crisis, we must agree to take head-on these undesirable beasts and uproot them from the society so that, together, we can make it better for our girls and boys to thrive by creating a conducive environment free from sexual and other forms of violence. For this to happen, Kenyans of goodwill need to play their part in protecting children and women against all forms of gender-based violence. It is time we undertook to call out the perpetrators of this heinous crime — including those hiding within families. This will, however, happen if the society is ready to deal with such abuse honestly and without looking at it with a gender eye. HUMANE WAY Fighting sexual and gender-based violence must not be looked at as a problem to be solved by women. All must come together and take up the responsibility to clean up the society, even as we protect the most vulnerable among us. A look at reported cases of rape and defilement against girls raises some key issues that we have to address if we are to get somewhere in fighting, especially, sexual abuse and related violence. These include how the media reports or covers sexual and gender-based violence — a serious protection issue — particularly against women and girls, who are mostly at risk. Journalists, and the media for that matter, have a crucial role in tackling this form of violence by, among other actions, enlightening the society on its causes, forms and consequences and helping those who have survived it to tell their stories in a humane way without traumatising them further. FURTHER TRAUMA Critical, too, is the need for journalists to work towards fighting and changing the unfortunate long-standing patriarchy — the father (forgive the pun) of negative perceptions and attitudes against women and girls — that gives rise to sexual exploitation, sexual harassment, domestic and related violence against them that are common in public spaces, schools, workplaces and even homes. It is unfortunate that some media, including mainstream and new media, perpetuate stereotypes, sexism in language, negativity and generalisation in their reporting and coverage of sexual and gender-based violence. The consequences of this type of reportage is usually great harm, injury and further trauma to the victim. It is important, therefore, that journalists arm themselves with resources such as relevant reading material that would help them to avoid mistakes that are far too common in reporting on sexual and gender-based violence and its misconceptions, especially on girls and women. REPORTING TONE In at least three recent articles of some of the worst cases of sexual abuse against children reported in the mainstream media, use of language and tone of reporting clearly showed that we still have to do more to confront sexual and all forms of violence against women in the media, in the way we report. Framing of issues to do with SGBV, language, phraseology, terminology, choice of semantics and context all matter and play a vital role. I recommend a publication launched last month by Unesco in Paris as a guide for journalists. Reporting on Violence Against Women and Girls: A Handbook for Journalists, is written by Ms Anne-Marie Impe, a former editor-in-chief who is currently a freelance journalist, writer and journalism lecturer in Brussels, Belgium. Ms Rugene is a consulting editor. Njeri.rugene@womansnewsroom.africa @nrugene  