We face an existential threat: We see forests burning from America to Australia, deserts advancing across Africa and Asia and rising sea levels threatening European cities as well as the Pacific islands. In Kenya, rains are resulting in floods and landslides, causing loss of human life and destruction of infrastructure and property. CLEAN ENERGY These phenomena have been seen and experienced by humanity before, but never at this rate. Science rightly tells us that we can still stop this epidemic — but we are running out of time. When it took office on December 1, the new European Commission presented, on December 11, its roadmap for a new European Green Deal that comprehensively works towards a healthy planet for a healthy population. Our goal is for Europe to become the first climate-neutral continent by 2050, slowing down global warming and mitigating its effects. The green deal is Europe’s new growth strategy. It will cut emissions while creating jobs and improving the quality of life. It is the green thread to run through all policies — from transport to taxation, food, farming and industry to infrastructure. With it, we want to invest in clean energy and extend our emissions trading, but also boost the circular economy and protect our biodiversity. This thread will also run through our partnership with Kenya. We will continue to support the Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) and the ministries of Agriculture, Environment and Forestry and also Devolution and Asals and other key agencies to conserve wildlife, disseminate climate-smart practices, prepare for and respond to droughts and generate clean energy. CREATE JOBS The European Union has significantly supported, through its budget and as the European Investment Bank (EIB), the Turkana Wind Power Station. This innovative project involves zero debt to Kenya, but generates 17 per cent of the country’s electricity needs during the day and 30 per cent at night and creates jobs with a positive socio-economic impact and zero carbon emissions. It shows that Kenya can successfully pursue the renewables track. Some 70 per cent of Kenya’s overall energy is generated from renewable sources! Last week in Nairobi, the new EU Commissioner for International Development, Ms Jutta Urpilainen, witnessed the signing of an agreement between the EIB and Comesa’s Trade and Development Bank for €106 million (Sh12 billion). That will provide a credit line for SMEs on climate action to unlock business opportunities and create jobs for the local youth. The green deal is not just a necessity: It is a driver of new economic opportunities. Many European firms that are going green will enhance their ambition and share experiences with their counterparts in partner countries like Kenya. They will endeavour to stay within requisite planetary boundaries. CLEAR RULES Adopting circular economy with measures for the entire life cycle of products and initiatives to support the transition will promote collective learning and action. What businesses and change makers need is easy access to financing, and we will deliver a Sustainable Europe Investment Plan. It will support €1 trillion (Sh113 billion) of investment over the next decade. We will work with the EIB, Europe’s climate bank as well as other European and international financial institutions to de-risk investments. In March next year, the EU will be proposing the first-ever European Climate Law to provide clear rules for investors, innovators and entrepreneurs to plan their long-term investments. While we will promote transformation in how we produce and consume, live and work, we must also protect and accompany those who risk being hit harder by such change. This transition must work for all or it will not work at all. I will propose a Just Transition Fund — and I want it to mobilise, together with the leverage of the EIB and private money — €100 billion (Sh11.3 billion) in investment within seven years, leaving no one behind. TRUE DIFFERENCE Young and old people are not only asking for climate action; they’re changing their lifestyle. Think of commuters who use bikes or public transport, parents who choose reusable diapers, companies that renounce single-use plastics and bring sustainable alternatives to the market. Our intention is to partner on this ambitious agenda beyond our borders, also recognising that we will continue supporting our development partners to implement their national programmes. The European Green Deal is Europe’s response to the call of people around the globe. It is a deal by Europe, for Europe and a contribution for a better world. We look forward to working with Kenya to make a true global difference. Ms Leyen is the European Commission president.  