Leaders Kabras Sugar hope to recover from their loss to Homeboyz with a good result against Menengai Oilers today at Kakamega Showground in the pick of Kenya Cup rugby matches this weekend. Coach Henley du Plessis has not changed the Kabras Sugar side that squandered a healthy lead lose to Homeboyz 20-17 last Saturday. However, Oilers head coach Gibson Weru has made eight changes to his squad that beat Kisumu 57-18 last Saturday. Vincent Oduor, Chrispine Shitindo, Nickson Ochieng, Aziz Annan, Kevin Mburu, Beldad Ogeta, Moses Arara and Austin Sikutwa who started against Kisumu have been replaced. Atiti Francis and Hillary Malweyi join Vincent Mwikali for the front-row assault. Clinton Odhiambo is back to captain Oilers at second row, partnering with Brian Ndirangu. Aziz Annan moves to the blindside flank, leaving the eighthman role to Rodgers Audi while Samuel Were is on the open-side flank. Amos Onyinkwa comes into the starting squad in place of Mburu. Abutali Wesonga will be the fly-half. Timothy Okwemba takes Ogeta’s place on the left-wing while Derrick Keyoga stays on the right side. Du Plessis has Brian Tanga at scrum half and Jone Kubu at Flyhalf while Alfred Orege and Paul Abuto are at the wings with Avisai Kuruyawa at fullback.Nondies head coach Willis Ojal has made three changes among the forwards as they seek to beat defending champions Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) at the Den, Ruaraka again. Nondies is the only side that beat KCB last season in the first leg 27-22 before the bankers claimed revenge 50-5 in the second leg. Ojal has replaced Ian Njenga and Oliver Tambo with Ernest Ngong and Frank Mutuku. Ronnie Mwenesi has been replaced by Brian Njenga who will partner with Brian Sinei at second row. Henry Fullbright and captain Fidel Oloo will be at the flank. Steve Odhiambo is the eigthman, while the backline remains unchanged. FIXTURES (All matches kick off at 3pm) Kabras Sugar v Menengai Oilers (Kakamega) Mwamba v Homeboyz (Railway, Nairobi) Impala Saracens v Western Bulls (Impala Sports Club) Nondies v KCB (Jamhuri Park) Biak Blad v Quins (Kenyatta University) Kisumu v Nakuru (Mamboleo Showground)  