Leaders Nairobi City Stars will be hoping to end the first leg on a high when they take on Kibera Black Stars in the National Super League (NSL) on Saturday at Camp Toyoyo Grounds. A total of nine matches have been lined-up, with the tie pitting City Stars against Black Stars the highlight of the final round before the midseason break. Though they have endured a tough season so far and are lying third from bottom with 13 points, just a point above the drop, Black Stars will be out to end City Stars unbeaten start to the season. Heading to the game, 30 points separate the two teams as Nairobi City Stars top the 19-team NSL with 43 points. After ending an 11-match winless run with a 3-1 win over Talanta in their last league match, Black Stars are confident of building on that win with a stunning victory over the league leaders. City Stars will be hoping to go to the break with a healthy lead atop the standings with second-placed Nairobi Stima and Bidco United breathing down their neck. Stima coach Leonards Odipo, who leads his charges against Coast Stima on Saturday in Mombasa, has urged his charges to keep pushing. “We must remain focused in our fixtures as we plan to close the gap on leaders City Stars,” said the former Sony Sugar head coach. Mid-table Shabana visit Camp Toyoyo on Sunday to take on FC Talanta from 3pm. Fresh from their Jamhuri Day Cup victory over Wazito Legends in a thrilling clash at Nyayo National Stadium on Thursday, Kirinyaga-based Fortune Sacco will be in Thika to take on Bidco United. Meanwhile, the Jonathan Jackson Foundation (JJF) has introduced a Community Cup to be contested during the round 19 National Super League (NSL) match pitting Nairobi City Stars against Kibera Black Stars on Saturday starting 3pm at Camp Toyoyo. JJF acquired Nairobi City Stars back in April and are the club’s sponsors and the Cup being presented, dubbed JJF Jamii Cup, will be contested by the same teams in the first leg as well as second leg of the 2019/2020 National Super League (NSL). Its objective is to attract fans back to the stadium. “In this initiative we as JJF are floating a Cup for the winner to be accompanied with a Sh20,000 cash prize. The losing team will walk home with Sh10,000. The MVP on either side will receive a pair of football boots,” said Musalia Mwenesi, the JJF CEO. “Over the years each Black Stars and City Stars meet the game is on a knife edge; it’s always a close call. This time we are providing fans from either divide a real platform to come cheer their teams to victory as there is a ready take-home right after,” City Stars CEO Patrick Korir said. Should the game be tied at full time penalties will be called in to determine the winner. Round 19 NSL fixtures Saturday Ushuru v Kenya Police – Camp Toyoyo – 1pm Nairobi City Stars v Kibera Black Stars – 3pm Coast Stima v Nairobi Stima – Mbaraki – 1pm Bidco United v Fortune Sacco – Thika – 3pm Migori Youth v Vihiga Bullets – Awendo – 3pm Sunday Talanta v Shabana – Camp Toyoyo – 3pm Vihiga United v Mt Kenya United – Mumias – 2pm Modern Coast Rangers v St Joseph’s Youth – Serani – 3pm Muranga Seal v Administration Police – Thika – 3pm  