Striking doctors in Kisumu were Monday night headed into a major clash with the county government after the later threatened the health workers with sacking, following a dispute on promotions. About 128 striking doctors risk losing their jobs after the county government gave them up to close of business Monday to pick their promotion letters. But the doctors, through the Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists Union (KMPDU) have rejected the county government offer, which they termed as an insult to their profession and career investment. VACANT POSITIONS According to KMPDU, the county government has drawn letters to wrong and illegal job groups, placing doctors in lower and junior job groups, with unacceptable loss of career years. The county Health Chief Executive Prof Judith Attyang convened a press conference where she said those who will fail to pick their letters by close of business Monday should consider themselves sacked. She spoke as the doctors strike which commenced on December 6 entered the 18th day. The strike has left Kisumu residents at the mercy of private hospitals as the stalemate between the doctors and the county government persists. Dr Attyang said the county government will declare the positions vacant should the doctors fail to pick the promotion letters. “We have asked the doctors to pick promotion letters. The ball is now on their court. If they don't pick the letters by December 23, then they shall consider the positions vacant,” said Prof Attyang. Responding, however, KMPDU Nyanza branch chairman Dr Osuri Kevin said the union has rejected the county government offer in its entirety. The union accused the county government of engaging in threats and playing to the public gallery while ignoring their demands. Speaking soon after the county CEC’s press conference, the union chairman claimed the county government has refused to meet the doctors to discuss their grievances. “Since the strike commenced on December 6, 2019, the county government has not convened a single meeting with the doctors’ union, preferring to issue threats online at the expense of human suffering,” said Dr Osuri. Earlier, KMPDU had taken to social media terming the promotion letters ‘a love letter.’ According to the Dr Osuri, the employer has failed to observe their return to work formula signed on June 24 even us the strike enters its third week. “The employer has failed to honour the Return to Work formula that required the implementation of the Collective Bargain Agreement (CBA) signed in 2017 and in June. They have not observed the promotion of Doctors,” said the KMPDU Nyanza chairman. He went on, "This year alone, this county has experienced numerous strikes and it is hurting the UHC program piloted in the county and the residents are not benefiting from de localization of services, this is an indicator that the county is unable to maintain this docket." In her response, Prof Attyang said there is one standardised letter for county workers and if the doctors are not satisfied with the letter, then there is room for discussions. However, Dr Osuri disclosed to the press that the letters of promotions had failed to observe the correct job groups adding that they will avoid their work stations. “We cannot pick letters that have wrong job groups, because this means our pay will be wrong. It is our right to get promoted and the employer should not think they are doing us a favour,” added Dr Osuri. The union also lamented on the county government’s excuse of budgetary constraints to support promotions and asked the Ethic and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) to step in and investigate the devolved unit. “In June, the former Minister of Health told us they had set aside Sh250 million for promotions yet they are telling us that they don’t have money right now, we smell mischief,” said Dr Osuri. Services in public health facilities in Kisumu have been adversely affected by the doctors’ strike, with many patients being being turned away. “I know in most public facilities C-Sections are being done. Mothers are really suffering because of the lack of this key medical services,” said the health CEC. Meanwhile, nurses in Kisumu have given the county government a strike notice as their return to work agreement expires on December 31. But the health CEC said the county government was working on their concerns and demands. "As we are working on the doctor's CBA, definitely we are in the process of implementing the nurses concerns. If any of their concerns are not addressed then we will negotiate,” she said. She blamed the delay on implementing their demands to delayed release of funds from the National Treasury. "The CBA was to be implemented in September 2019. The assumption was that the financial year will start in July. But we all know why it didn't start in July and that pushed every to back,” she said.  