A gang that is terrorising and sodomising men in Gakoigo village of Maragua in Murang’a County has caused fear and alarm among residents. As a result, men now go home early to avoid being preyed on by the group, which targets drunken men aged 40 years and above Last week, Julius Njoroge Mburu, 40, was sodomised and brutally killed by the gang. The gang later burnt his neck using his clothes before dumping his body in the bush near Gakoigo town. Although it is not clear what time the crime was committed, his family estimates that it happened between 10 and 11 pm based on what they had gathered from Mburu’s friends. BODY DUMPED IN BUSH His brother, Moses Kamande, told the Nation that they went looking for Mburu after he failed to return home. Later, they were informed that his body had been seen in the bush about 100 meters from the Gakoigo-Maragua road -- barely a kilometre from their home. On reaching the scene, Mr Kamande found his brother’s naked body. Mburu had been strangled using a wire and his hands were tied. “He must have died a painful death; it was horrific,” Mr Kamande told the Nation. He said his brother was probably killed because he recognised the attackers since, in recent incidents, the gang did not kill those it sodomised. He said his brother’s death came in the wake of yet another shocking incident where a man was slashed to death after being sodomised by a gang near Gakoigo shopping centre. SPEED UP PROBE Mburu’s mother, Teresiah Njeri, wants police to speed up investigations and bring the killers of her son to book. “How long will this continue without people being arrested? Police should do everything to bring the perpetrators to book. I have not been able to bury him since I cannot afford the Sh10,000 required for a post-mortem examination,” said the sobbing mother.   Local Nyumba Kumi leader Joseph Kamande Njung’e said the situation seems to have gone out of hand since, even after the authorities held a baraza, the incidents are increasing. He said men are now living in fear. POLICE ON THE SPOT Mr Njung’e accused police of being slow in conducting investigations. He said police take the incidents lightly, thus emboldening the attackers who roam freely. “I believe the predicament facing this village has been taken casually by the police. When this incident happened, we did not see scene of crime officers and the body was collected by ordinary police officers. Let the authorities take the matter with the seriousness it deserves and these incidents will come to an end,” he said. Mr Njung’e attributed the incidents to drug abuse, saying the uptake of drugs in the area is on the rise. He added that no one had been arrested since the incidents started. Murang’a County Police Commander Josephat Kinyua told the Nation that officers are on the lookout and are investigating the incidents. “Officers are looking into the matter,” he said.  