Friends School Kamusinga from Bungoma County, Chavakali High from Vihiga and Kakamega High School from Kakamega reigned supreme in the Western region, posting top results in this year’s Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examination. REGULATIONS Kamusinga School bounced back to glory to post an impressive performance, producing nine candidates with plain As and 62 others clinching A minus. But Chavakali High School had the best candidate in the region, Victor Abayesu, who scored an A plain of 84 points. However, the best overall school nationally in this year’s exam was Kenya High School, which registered 76 straight As in tests where candidates recorded greatly improved performance and cheating declined remarkably, proving that the strict regulations are paying dividends. The school also produced the best female candidate, Barasa Maryanne Njeri, who had grade A of 87.087 with a performance index of 87.087. Kapsabet Boys produced the overall best candidate, Buluma Tony Wabuko, who obtained grade A with a performance index of 87.159. STRAIGHT As He was followed by Barasa Maryanne Njeri of The Kenya High who had grade A of 87.087 with a performance index of 87.087. In third position was Aboge David Odhiambo of Kapsabet Boys, A, with performance index of 87.080, Anthony Owuor Ochieng of Maseno School, A of 87, Mathuri Natasha Wawira of The Kenya High A of 86.961, Kizito Ezra Sikuta Moi High School, Kabarak had an A of 86.960 and Long’ali M. Chepengat of Alliance Girls, A of 86.924. The others among the top 10 were: Ndathi Hellen Njoki of Moi Forces Academy, Lanet, A with a performance index of 86.99 and Laura Chelangat Ruto of St Brigit Kimini, A, of 86.853. The Kenya High School, which has consistently demonstrated sterling performance, posted 76 straight As, the highest from a single school in the past four years. In second place was Kapsabet Boys that had 49 As, Alliance High School 48, Moi High School Kabarak 30 and Alliance Girls 27. The other top performing schools were Maryhill Girls with 25 As, Maseno School, Nairobi School and Mangu each had 23 and Moi Girls, Eldoret 21. HARD WORK Alliance Girls Principal Virginia Gitonga, in an interview, was upbeat that the hard work of the candidates, teachers and parents had paid off. The school has consistently produced top grades under the new regime of tight examination administration. At Kamusinga, two candidates  Otagala Santias Osiga and Caleb Kiprono, scored an A with an  index of 83 points. The other stars were Marlon Nyabuto, scoring an A with 82 points and Emmanuel Omondi Ochieng’, A with 81 points. Other top scorers from the school were Alvin Wasike who scored 81 points (A), Eliud Otieno 81 points (A), Michael David Mageto 81 points (A), Austin Ongala Ochieng 81 points (A) and Ekala Abednego 81 points (A). The school posted an improved mean grade of 9.1608, up from an index of 8.3 in 2018. The principal, Mr Alex Kuria, was overjoyed by the performance, saying hard work had enabled the candidates to post a good performance. SHINING Chavakali High School seems to have recovered from its misfortunes that saw its results cancelled in 2015 due to reported exam irregularities. Besides Victor Abayesu, who topped the region, Bravin Ombima and Samson Odhiambo took the second position after managing an A plain of 82 points. Others were David Mokuru, Ignatius Shisia and Victor Mulinge who had an A plain of 81 points each. "Our school is shining again. We have several A minuses and we are still downloading the results but what we already have is impressive," said the principal, Mr John Kuria. Kakamega School, a former giant, had three candidates scoring a plain A. The candidates are Victor Mikae Nyamwaya who scored an A of 83 points, Edmond Kipkorir Bett got A of 83 points and Clinton Shikhule who scored A of 81 points. Three candidates from the school clinched plain As, 25 got A minus, 63 B plus and 65 got B plain. The school posted a mean grade of 7.70 this year compared to last year’s 6.80. IMPROVED At Lugulu Girls in Bungoma, another former academic giant in the region, only one candidate managed to score an A of 81 points in this year’s exams. Seventeen candidates at the school scored an A minus. Three candidates from Booker Academy made it to the list of top performers. Jerome Owino scored an A minus with 78 points, Konya Lovela had an A minus with 75 points while Moreen Ligono got an A minus with 74 points. The academy posted an improved mean grade of 7.95 compared to last year’s 7.455 performance index. ACADEMIES Nyangóri Boys, an extra-county school that competes against Chavakali Boys and other top academies in the county, had its top student, Frank Msasia, scoring 80 points to clinch an A minus. Other top performers at the public school that has maintained top performance over the years are Jamesrex Tsinalo 75 points (A minus) and Elkanah Mgaza 78 (A minus). The neighbouring Mudasa Academy, a privately-run institution, managed a mean score of 8.62 after all its 39 candidates scored above C plain. According to the principal, Mr George Mudanyi, Hildah Anyango topped the school after scoring an A minus of 74 points. Six candidates had B plus, 18 B plains, seven B minuses, five C pluses and two C plains. TRADITION Mr Mudanyi said the school's mean score had improved to B plain and described the results as appealing as the academy continued to post good results to retain its performance tradition. In Busia county, Luke Hillary from Butula Boys scored an A minus of 80 points and tied in the same position with Bonvenja Anabwani who got an A minus of 80 points. Brian Shitakwa scored A minus of 74 points. At Sigalame Boys, James Opiyo got an A minus of 76 points and tied with Silas Afubwa Okello.  