Moi High School in Kabarak dominated the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education examinations in Nakuru County by producing 30 candidates who scored A. The school produced the sixth top candidate nation wide,  Ezra Kizito Sikute, who scored an A plain of 86 points. Others from the institution who had A include Njuguna Samuel Mbugua, Keith Kirsti and Ian Mwangi. The school's principal Elishebah Cheruiyot attributed their success to a combination of academic and commitment to the Christian faith. “We thank God as this is as a result of not only hard work but prayers too,” she told the Nation.   Nakuru Boys High School also produced good results with some of the top six candidates scoring A. They include Muchemi Dennis Wambugu (82 points), Samuel Karuma Ndungu (82 points ), Anthony Mepukori MNkilisho (81 points), Ramdahn Abubakar Abdi (81 points), Peter Ng’ang’a Wainaina (82 points), Kelvin Kamau Mbanya (81). At Nakuru Girls, Albright Chepchumba scored A plain of 80 points, Catherine Mumbi Mureithi had A plain of 82 points and Stacy Iminza, Dapphy Taka (81 points), Vanessa Njeri Njoroge (81 points0, Ruth Khavere (82 points), The top day school in Nakuru Town Langalanga Secondary School s produced impressive result with eight of its candidates scoring A minus grades. They include Brian Kiarie who had an A minus (79 points), Dennis Omondi (75 points), Evans Onyango (75 points), Stepehen Warutere (75 points), Robert Waruinge (75 points), Washington Omondi (75 points), Paul Njoroge (74 points), Jackline Akinyi (74 points).   “Last year we had a Plain A and five A minus and this year we  have many A minus and this is a good improvement,” said school Principal Rufina Mutegi. At least eight candidates from Utumishi Academy in Gigil scored A minus. They include Tranquil Favours Omondi (75 points), Victor Kyula Mutiso (77 points), Linus Njoroge Waihganjo( 79 points), Gerald Kibet(78 points), Brian Kinuthia Clendon (77 points), Rymond Mutua Kilonzo (78 points) James Kimani Njehia and John Njoroge of  Elburgon Day Secondary School in Molo sub-county also posted good results with an A minus  of 79 points and 75 points respectively. In Samburu, Meshack Lmeidmi of Good Shepherded Minor Seminary had an A minus of 75 points while Edapal Petero Koya, Karisa Baraka Thinga all of Maralal High school scored A minus while Lenawasae Lpariyion of St Pauls Bhawa had A minus. Jamet Aidah Kahora of Kisima secondary school had A plain grade of 82 points while another students from the same school Bonaya Wako Guyo had A minus of 79 points. In Nyandarua Karima Girls High School in Kinangop Constituency, the top candidate was Gachu Sylvia Warwinu with an A of 82 points, followed by Kamande Terry Joy Mwende also with an A of 81 points. At Heni Day Secondary School in Ndaragua Constituency, the number of B Plus increased from 8 to 13 in 2019 KCSE results Reporting by Eric Matara, Francis Mureithi, John Njoroge, Samuel Baya, Phylis Musasia,  Waikwa Maina, Steve Njuguna and Mercy Koskey and Geoffrey Ondieki  