Harambee Stars coach Sebastien Migne on Saturday named a squad of local-based players for the upcoming Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) and Africa Nations Championships (Chan) assignments. The 25-man squad will begin preparations at the Kenya School of Monetary Studies on Tuesday for the final 2019 Afcon qualifier against Ghana as well as the two-leg Chan qualifier against Burundi. Mathare United, who have been at the summit of the SportPesa Premier League for the first two months of the 2018/19 season, have produced five players notably Andrew Juma and Roy Okal who have been called up for the first time. It's also the first senior call up for their left-back David Owino after impressing at Under 23 and 20 levels. His Emerging Stars teammates Brian Bwire, James Mazembe, Piston Mutamba, Michael Kibwage, Teddy Osok, Jafari Owiti and Sydney Lokale have also received the nod. Duke Abuya of Kariobangi Sharks also gets his maiden call up after impressing in the SportPesa Cup last month. Champions Gor Mahia will be represented by Francis Kahata, Philemon Otieno and Joash Onyango. However, the trio will not take part in Tuesday’s training session due to Gor's midweek commitment in the league. Also excused from Tuesday’s session are Elvis Nandwa, Bandari duo of Abdallah Hassan and Farouk Shikalo, Kakamega Homeboyz top scorer Allan Wanga and Benard Ochieng, who are based outside Nairobi. The five will link up with the team a week later. SQUAD Goalkeepers Brian Bwire (Kariobangi Sharks), John Oyemba (Kariobangi Sharks), Farouk Shikalo (Bandari)Defenders Andrew Juma (Mathare United), David Owino (Mathare United), Philemon Otieno (Gor Mahia), Joash Onyango (Gor Mahia), Elvis Nandwa (Ulinzi Stars), Michael Kibwage (KCB), Bernard Ochieng (Vihiga United)Midfielders Francis Kahata (Gor Mahia), James Mazembe (Kariobangi Sharks), Duke Abuya (Kariobangi Sharks), Roy Okal (Mathare United), Cliff Nyakeya (Mathare United), John Avire (Sofapaka), Dennis Odhiambo (Sofapaka), Teddy Osok (Wazito FC), Whyonne Isuza, Jafari Owiti (AFC Leopards), David Owino (Tusker), Abdallah Hassan (Bandari)Forwards Sydney Lokale (Kariobangi Sharks), Piston Mutamba (Sofapaka), Allan Wanga (Kakamega Homeboyz)  