Handicap 18 golfer Wilfred Wanjui was in his best form during the weekend’s Captain’s Prize golf tournament at the century old Mombasa Golf Club course. Wanjui, formerly of Limuru Country Club, posted a differential of 38 points to beat a field of 110 golfers in the event, which brought club captain Mark Mbua’s two -year term to an end. During the first round, Wanjui carded an impressive 68 nett, which he followed by 30 stableford points the following day to by one point from the handicap nine Miqdad Walji who took the runner up spot. Walji had carded 72 nett in the first round, while during the second round, he fired 33 points. In third place was Gabriel Gakuo with 40 points, one better than Gregory Koech, while Martin Ombura completed the main prize list with 42 points for the fifth place. Winning the first round was Paul Munyao on 70 nett and the second round winner for past Nyali captain Abbas Sheikh Ali with 39 stableford points. Leading the past captains was Symon Wambugu who carded 49 points, while Elijah Ibua was the best senior on 43 points. In the ladies section, which was played only in the second round, Hildah Mugure won with 26, one better than Leisure Lodge Golf Resort’s Naomi Wambui. In the guests category, Fr. M. Karanja won with 49 points was Odongo Mark Okeyo was Royal Nairobi Guest winner with 58 points. Douglas Mutero won the longest drive in the first round and the second round winner was Omar Lewa. Shaham Eliathamby and Lawrence Odhiambo won the nearest to pin prizes and Hildah Mugure taking the longest drive title. Caddies also played along with the members, where Swaleh Omar was the winner with 72 nett, one shot better than Veronica Wairimu. At Muthaiga Golf Club, Simon Ndirangu playing off handicap 24 carded an excellent 44 points, to win the Contech and JCB Ganatra sponsored tournament, where the men winner was Jiango Shen on 39 points. In second place in the men section was Maurice Maina with 39 points, having lost the second prize to Shen on countback. Ali Thobani with 38 points was third, while taking the overall prize in the ladies section was Nancy Ndungu with 39 points, beating Sonia Patel by one point. Taking the seniors top prize was Michael Njuguna on 37, while the handicap five Emmanuel Njugu was the junior winner with 39 points. The nines went to Olive Njagion 21 and Evans Obare, who posted 24 points with Mavji Gorasia on 37 emerging the best guest. He won ahead of Azhar Sheikh on 34 points. Nancy Ndungu and Joe Murema won the nearest to pin and Daniel Kiragu and Christina Andersen won the longest drive. At Sigona, veteran golfer Sabo Kalsi will lead the six qualifiers to the KCB Karen Masters Pro-Am to be held in June. Kalsi posted 41points to win the “KCB Road to Karen Masters’’ series at the par 72 Sigona course, where I. Aldasani was the men winner with 40 points after a countback with Rajiv Shah. Milka Mburu was the lady winner with 33 points, beating Archana Patel by one point, and Tarun Patel emerged the best junior with a score of 24 points. Azu Ogolla carded 38 points to claim the staff prize. Leading the guests was Lee Mungai on 40 points. Winning the nines were D S Bhachu (23) and Peter Nganga with 21points. The following are summarised results of the weekend golf round-up; At Royal Nairobi; Ladies Invitation; Winners Serah Khanyereri, C. Anyango, Doris Mideva 114 points, Lydia Mokaya’s tream 109 points, 3rd Rebeca Gikuru, Phylis Kimbo, E. Makumi 105, member winner- Lucy Kisia 37, Rosemary Kioni 36, Lady guest- C. Agengo 42 pts, Men subsidiary- winner- Joseah Kogo 42, Jerim Otieno 40, Job Kamau 40, Kungu Gatabaki 39, sponsor-Peter Kanyua 37 pts. In Nyeri: Dedan Kimathi University of Technology Charity Golf Day: Overall winner- Joshua Mwangi 41 pts, Men winner- Daniel Weru 37 cb Wachira Keen 37, George Miatu 36. Lady winner- Jacinta Mwangi 37, Wambui Kimathi 36, Gross- Stella Mwangi 76, Guest- James Wakibia 37, staff Moses Murimi 29. Nines-James Maythenege 20, Nderibu Ndebu 22 pts. At Ruiru; The Irrigation Golf Day/ Ladies Medal ; Men winner Ezekiel Mucina 64 nett, Joseph Kibui 65, Henry Mwaura 67,Lady winner- Judy Nyambura 70 cb Teresiah Wainana, Guest John Nduati 73. Nines- Ruth Kamau 37, Charity Njoroge 37 nett.   It was the second junior golf clinic on the Safari Tour series.