Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana has criticised Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka’s leadership style claiming that he is dishonest. Prof Kibwana, who last week offered informally to resign as Wiper Party chairman, said on Sunday that the rift between him and Mr Musyoka “is a question of trust.” The governor accused the Wiper leader of breaching an agreement they made prior to his joining the party in the lead up to the 2017 General Election. “We had an agreement on how to select MCAs (Members of County Assembly). Previously, I had a hostile group of MCAs. When we agreed on a way of doing it, it was not done. I have some even today who are causing problems,” he said during an interview on KTN News. 'ECONOMIC BLOCK' Mr Kibwana’s troubles in Wiper intensified recently following his dalliance with fellow Ukambani governors, Dr Alfred Mutua of Machakos and Ms Charity Ngilu of Kitui. Mr Mutua and Ms Ngilu have both been fierce critics of Mr Musyoka whom they say had no development impact on the region in his many years as a government minister. Although the trio insist that their union is meant to drive economic development in the region, Mr Musyoka’s followers see it as a bid to undermine his political influence since both Mr Kibwana and Mr Mutua harbour presidential ambitions. 'SIDELINED' Mr Kibwana reiterated his claim that Mr Musyoka went behind his back when he declared truce with President Uhuru Kenyatta, following in the footsteps of Orange Democratic Movement leader Raila Odinga. According to him, Wiper leaders were considering working with the President when the party leader was out of the country but the governor suggested that they wait until Mr Musyoka returns before making the decision. “When he came back after the handshake, he was asked if there are some people we can put forward to work in government. It never happened. When the party leader met the President, I was in Rwanda. We said counties should be left to say which projects they require…that didn’t happen,” he claimed. Mr Kibwana said his proposals to strengthen the party through election of officials have been ignored. 'SUPREMACY WARS' But the governor defended Mr Musyoka when the KTN journalist Sophia Wanuna asked him if the former vice president deserves the watermelon tag, saying he “is consistent.” “Kalonzo has a chance to change. Even Saul became Paul. People must sit down and reinvent themselves. We are three governors seeking an economic block. We do not understand why this is being fought.” Last week, a group of MCAs from Machakos dared Mr Kibwana to quit the party if he believes he has enough supporters to reclaim his seat in a fresh election. “When you ask for internal democracy you are perceived as Kalonzo’s enemy. We are not jostling for supremacy, but if we agree on something let us do it. Let us not use MCAs to place stumbling blocks for governors,” he said. If push comes to shove, Mr Kibwana said he would not mind a fresh election.   Wiper MPs say they will convene party's National Executive Committee to discipline governor.