Big dams meant to solve development problems have become the conduit for illicit transfer of public funds to organised cartels. The investigations into the Arror and Kimwarer multipurpose dam tenders should, hopefully, unpack one of the biggest such scandals in our large infrastructure projects. The two dams, which were to be built in Elgeyo-Marakwet County by Kerio Valley Development Authority (KVDA) at Sh66.5 billion, should be subjected to a forensic audit to determine their conception and its compromised implementation. Investigators should also look at due diligence to establish how the contractor secured contracts to construct the two dams simultaneously. CORRUPTION Earlier, KVDA presided over the construction of the Turkwel Gorge hydroelectric power project that was widely reported to have been riddled with massive corruption, even featuring in WikiLeaks and Kroll Associates reports as an organised and systemic looting of public funds. Several other dams are steeped in controversy. They include the Sh42 billion Thwake Dam in Makueni County, being developed by Tanathi Water Services Board with funding from the government and the African Development Bank. Another is the Sh40 billion Itare dam in Nakuru County, where the contractor abandoned work. Studies and investigations on big dams globally draw similar conclusions: Most of them are poorly designed, costly and fail to deliver the envisaged benefits to citizens and the economy. The four dams are already experiencing difficulties and could become white elephants unless they are extensively restructured and construction hastened. COMPENSATION The three dams in Rift Valley were, strangely, awarded to the same Italian contractor, who has been declared bankrupt. Besides the huge costs, there were long delays in commencing the projects, causing cost overruns. The envisaged goals and benefits would not be realised in time. Even though large dams displace many people, compensation of the affected populations is determined without much stakeholder engagement and payments take long. Compensation by the National Land Commission is widely abused and controlled by vested interests, including politicians and wheeler-dealers. Big dams cause considerable social damage by displacing people without giving them adequate compensation and resettlement, or better, quality than their former land. RESEARCH They cause serious environmental damage. Swallowing up large tracts of prime land and indigenous forests, they cause changes in the environment and weather patterns. The government should ensure minimum conditions before venturing into big dams. Their economic, social and environmental viability should be proven through extensive studies. Besides the design and procurement being comprehensive and transparent to ensure value for money, there should be sufficient safeguards to protect the environment. There are viable alternatives of providing water and electricity to communities. The best option for water supply is small dams, water pans and rainwater harvesting. GREEN ENERGY On expanding electricity access for domestic and industrial consumption, the ultimate solution should be the development of geothermal, wind and solar power. Green energy sources are more cost-effective and sustainable than hydro power, which is beholden to erratic weather patterns. Deepening investment in alternative energy and water sources would disrupt cartel behaviour and reduce opportunities for corruption. It should reduce wastage of public resources on investments that do not contribute to economic growth, poverty reduction and equity in resource distribution. A more viable development model should cure Kenya of “the curse of the big dams”, which has caused considerable damage to many economies. Mr Warutere is a director of Mashariki Communications. ptwarutere@gmail.com  