As it has been the norm in the recent past, Gor Mahia once again humbled eternal nemesis AFC Leopards 2-0 in the first Mashemeji derby of the 2018/19 SportPesa Premier League at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani on Saturday. Midfielders Kenneth Muguna and Francis Kahata did the damage for the champions with goals on either end as K'Ogalo eased past their rivals in the charged match.   Gor Mahia coach Hassan Oktay celebrated by leaping high into the air and pulling his elbows back forcefully to cut a figure of a man greatly pleased at having won the battle of wits in his first Mashemeji Derby. "Of course I am impressed. The players gave out a performance befitting the occasion. My only problem is that I think we should have won by four or five goals based on the number of chances we created, but I am proud of our performance today and satisfied with the three points,” offered a visibly elated Oktay. His opposite number, Andre Casa Mbungo, on the other hand was left holding his head both in shame and despair as the final whistle called into reality his team’s fourth consecutive loss and the second straight defeat under his watch. “It may not look like it, but I believe these players have what it takes to stage a revival in this club. I still have faith in them. We shall obviously add a few more talents in the coming transfer window but I think they played quite well today under the circumstances,” said Mbungo in mitigation. After knocking on the Leopards door in the early exchanges, Gor deservedly went ahead through Muguna. Kahata, in acres of space on the left, sent a low cross that arrived in the box half a yard behind Boniface Omondi.   With the Ingwe rearguard out of position, a goal mouth melee ensued and Muguna capitalised. Picking the loose ball from close range, he fired a low drive that slipped through Eric Ndayishimiye's feet for the opener. The big cats struggled to make amends but were unsuccessful in penetrating the four-man Gor defence marshalled by captain Harun Shakava. With Joash Onyango, Shafiq Batambuze and Philemon “Mbish” Otieno as his comrades in arms, Shakava did his part to keep the ball away from the timid Ingwe frontline that had was led by Marcel Kaheza and Tatuwe Waiyyeka. In the second stanza, Oktay’s boys picked from where they left with Tuyisenge and Muguna repeatedly threatening the Ingwe defence that had Dennis Sikhayi, Salim Abdallah, Isaac Kipyegon and Christopher Oruchum. The Green Army wildly celebrated the second goal in the 64th minute. Diminutive midfielder Francis Kahata stepped forward to take a freekick and although it looked innocuous while arriving at the Leopards box, the ball took a wicked bounce in front of Ndayishimiye and rolled into the net.   By this time, despair was written all over the faces of the Ingwe fans whose last triumph at the Mashemeji derby came in March 2016. The 13-time champions could have fallen further behind in the 70th minute, but a goal from Tuyisenge was controversially cancelled for offside.   Oktay’s starting line-up had all the players who triumphed against Egyptian side Zamalek in the CAF Confederation Cup last weekend, save for Lawrence Juma who is unwell, as well as the central defence partnership of Charles Momanyi and Joachim Oluoch who were replaced by Shakava and Joash Onyango. Star striker Dennis OIiech was however completely absent due to injury.   For Ingwe, Mbungo made only one change in the squad that lost 2-1 Mount Kenya United on Wednesday resting Eugene Mukangula for Christopher Oruchum. The result lifts K’Ogalo to second place on the SportPesa Premier League table with 22 points while Ingwe remain 15th with 10 points.   Leopards will be seeking to bounce back to winning ways.