Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) managing director Daniel Manduku on Thursday called for calm after the organisation advertised jobs for senior managers. In an interview with the Nation, Dr Manduku said he was aware of the panic and anxiety that has gripped the KPA’s top managers, but said that should not be the focus for now. “The fear was ignited by a fake job advert that circulated on social media purporting that KPA was recruiting more than 140 Kenyans to work in the organisation,” he said. In the advertisement on Thursday's Nation’s print edition, KPA through its consulting firm Deloitte sought applications for 54 slots in operations, engineering, finance, board and legal services, corporate services, infrastructure development, human resources and security division. The fate of the current acting managers in the advertised positions is not known but Mr Manduku said they were only serving in an acting capacity. “There is no cause for alarm, we are just following…the Muthara circular of 2005 which is in line with the government regulations that all management positions must be competitively sourced from the market when they fall vacant,” said Mr Manduku. ENDING CRONYISM The anticipated changes may see a number of staff moved in a bid to rid the facility of lethargy and cronyism inherited from the past managements. “Members of the public are advised to ignore messages circulating on social media and other online platforms purporting that KPA has advertised for 140 vacancies targeting diploma and degree holders. This is a hoax,” said KPA. Last week, Likoni MP Mishi Mboko said locals must be considered for jobs by KPA in their Dongo Kundu port project. “I have talked about the employment issue for long. The Constitution says that in every project that is being carried in a certain region, the locals should be considered,” she said. Ms Mboko urged KPA to consider first residents of Likoni and Changamwe constituencies.   The handicap-29 Gichara needed only five pars for her excellent 40 points.