A 75-year old woman, who recently successfully filed a divorce against her 76-year-old husband in Kangema, Murang’a County, has died. Ms Marcella Mukami died at John Paul Huruma Hospital in Nanyuki on Sunday. According to a family source, she had been suffering from diabetes and hypertension. Family members met on Tuesday to decide where the deceased would be buried. “There are a number of issues that we have to discuss since she had just acquired her divorce wishes,” said a family member who wished not to be named. MATRIMONIAL CAUSE “She had also filed a matrimonial cause at Murang’a High Court in which she wanted fifty per cent of the property she had jointly acquired with her husband,” he added. Ms Mukami filed the matrimonial cause against her husband Mr Peter Kinyugo at Murang’a High Court in November last year. This was after a successful divorce suit at Kangema Law Courts where she accused Mr Kinyugo of committing adultery when he married his second wife Ms Trizah Mulinge in the 1980s. She also accused Mr Kinyugo of neglecting his matrimonial responsibilities. As soon as the court ruled in her favour, Ms Mukami moved to court and filed a matrimonial cause in which she listed several properties, including parcels of land and shares, which she wanted shared equally between her and her former husband. Among the properties listed in the petition 2 of 2018 at the Murang'a High Court include 10.4 acres of land known as Fort Hall Loc 14, a plot in Kiriaini market, shares at Kamami company, Kagioini General Stores and building and Esthba Wahome and Partners. PETITION In a petition drawn and filed by Maina Kagio Advocates, Ms Mukami states that the buildings and land were acquired and developed jointly with Mr Kinyugo. “...the property listed herein with all the buildings and development therein, all shares held be severed and an order be issued declaring that the applicant and the respondent are entitled to 50:50 share of all the properties mentioned,” the petition read in part. However, the petition wants a 1.4 hectares of land, which she says her husband received as a gift from his father, be divided between her, her husband and the second wife saying "they contributed substantially towards its development financially and morally".   Ms Mukami also accused her husband of not loving her.