Henry Wambua, 27, is a plant pathologist. He works at the Kenya Plant Health Inspectorate Service (KEPHIS) as a laboratory technician. Henry, who scored C in KCSE in 2010, started his journey to where he is now with a two-year diploma course in Medical Laboratory at Mount Kenya University. After graduating, he did his attachment at Kemri before enrolling at the Kenya Methodist University in 2014 for a three years’ BSc in Microbiology.  In a nutshell, who is a plant pathologist? This is someone who studies plant diseases, their causes and then comes up with solutions to eradicate them.  Is this what you wanted to do? Having come from a family of health professionals, I grew up liking science subjects. I was particularly drawn towards agriculture because I believed it would give me the opportunity to work with people who influence the basis of our sustenance, food, but are often not accorded the recognition that they deserve. I yearned to help others and make a difference in any way possible that would improve humanity’s living conditions. You see, pathology is a specialty that focuses on making diagnoses and thus, I saw it as a perfect fit.  How does a plant pathologist add value to people’s lives? A plant pathologist identifies plant pests and diseases, a process that leads to the best practices on how to eradicate them from farms. This then results in increased yields. It is also our job to examine any plants or planting material going out of or entering a country. This is done to prevent introduction of pests or diseases into the country, and can be achieved through issuing a quarantine.  When you realised that you scored grade C, were you disappointed that you might not get to your dream career? Yes. I expected a higher grade than that, however, my father, who is a medical doctor, encouraged me to upgrade to a degree in pathology, as many others before me have done. My experience has taught me that nothing is impossible if you are determined and consistent. The key is to set your goals straight and work towards achieving them.    What do you think about cheating in exams? It’s a poor choice that will eventually come back to bite you later on. Outward, you may seem like a brave strong warrior, but in reality, you are dishonourable and lazy. Students should just put effort in their studies rather than look for the easy way out.  What challenges do you face in your career? Generally, agriculture has not been given that much attention in terms of embracing new development and technology. As a country, more effort should be put in ensuring that the scientists, agricultural experts and farmers get more recognition. Challenges will always be there, I just take them positively and find my way around them.  Why do you like what you do? The fact that I am able to contribute to sustainable agriculture while practicing something that I wanted to do. I really enjoy being able to help reduce and eliminate plant diseases and thus strengthening the agricultural enterprise and ensuring food security. It is this spirit and purpose of my role that keeps me going.  How much does an entry level job as a plant pathologist pay? Can one be self-employed and earn a good living? It depends on your level of education – starting pay averages between Sh60,000 and Sh80,000. You can be a consultant if not keen on being employed. You can also be both. With the knowledge in diagnosis of plant pests and diseases, you can train farmers on how best to eradicate or reduce plant damage from pests. You could also organise seminars, which would involve giving talks and creating awareness on the various plant pests and diseases that are currently affecting our crops and provide possible solutions.  What would you tell a young person interested in pursuing this career? Plant pathology is quite an exciting field, so by all means follow it - as long as you’re passionate about it and believe in yourself, you will make it. Seek mentorship too - I have a few people that I reach out to in case I need advice, people that are approachable, ready to listen and have an open mind. To excel in this field, you need to perform well in biology and mathematics.  How do you unwind in a mostly indoor working environment? The institution has a number of sport activities - I mostly head out for a tennis game or basketball to relax after work. In my free time, I enjoy swimming and going for hikes. I recently started horse riding and I am currently learning dressage, (the art of riding and training a horse in a manner that develops obedience, flexibility, and balance) which is very challenging. I also lead a trail riding group for other horse lovers once a month. I like travelling. Listening to music is my favourite hobby though.   Millennial professionals find it hard to delay immediate gratification for long-term success.