Police will conduct an identification parade for six people linked to the death of human rights activist Caroline Mwatha as part of investigations that will take 14 days. In an affidavit filed in court on Wednesday, detectives said the suspects’ phone data as well as the clothes Ms Mwatha wore when she died on February 6 will be subjected to forensic analysis. The affidavit presented in court by lead investigator Chief Inspector Joseph Wanjohi further states that murder weapons used by the suspects will be analysed. On Tuesday, police claimed that Ms Mwatha died while procuring an abortion at a clinic in Dandora, but the affidavit presented before the Makadara court does not mention the cause of her death. Through a statement, Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti said the suspects were arrested over the deceased’s alleged botched abortion and disposal of her body, which was found at City Mortuary on Tuesday after six days. SAFETY The court allowed police to detain Mr Michael Onchiri, Ms Betty Akinyi, Mr Richard Ramoya Abudo, Mr Georgia Achieng, Mr Alexander Gitau Gikonya and Mr Stephen Maina for 14 days citing their own safety as investigations continue. Mr Wanjohi said the murder of Ms Mwatha has elicited immense public interest and the suspects should be held in police custody for their own good. He undertook to inform the suspects’ family members and their lawyers the station they would be detained. The detective told court that the suspects were arrested on Tuesday and there was little time to conclude investigations. The court allowed an application that the accused be held in various undisclosed police stations within Buruburu police division. The case will be mentioned on April 27 for further directions. CLINIC VISIT Meanwhile, text messages retrieved from the Ms Mwatha’s phone indicate that she visited the clinic for three consecutive days before Wednesday, February 6, when the alleged abortion was conducted. Ms Mwatha had on Tuesday sent a text message to a man believed to have been her lover, Alexander Gitau Gikonya, telling him that she was in pain on one side of her stomach and that she needed to relax. “Kesho lazima nirauke hossy haki usiku ndio nalemewa mbaya plus homa, but all will be OK (I must go to the hospital very early because I cannot sleep at night. I also have a cold but I will be OK),” one of the messages read. She visited a hospital the Nation could not identify from the texts later on Tuesday and updated Alexander that the doctor had conducted a check on her to establish her condition and the size of the foetus. DISAPPEARANCE On Wednesday morning, the day she was reported missing, Ms Mwatha took her child to school before proceeding to a hospital in Dandora called New Njiru Community Centre. While at the centre, she sent Alexander a message at 9.31am, updating him that she had arrived. She then requested him to pray for her. Police also found texts from her husband, Joshua Ochieng Oyucho, which indicated that he was slated to travel to Kenya from Dubai over the weekend. Ms Mwatha did not return home that day and for the next two days, prompting her colleagues to report her disappearance to the Buruburu Police Station under OB number 65/08/02/2019. When news of her disappearance spread, a female friend went to the police station and revealed that Ms Mwatha was five months pregnant and that she was planning to procure an abortion. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations then obtained call data that showed she had told at least three people — the female friend, the boyfriend and a doctor — that she would be getting rid of the pregnancy on Tuesday.   "The body has a very big cut on the thigh, how can that be an abortion?," Mwatha's husband said.