Early birds Kenya Defence Forces have already arrived in Eldoret ahead of next weekend’s National Cross Country Championships where they hope to run away with the overall title. The team is camping at the Eldoret Showgrounds hoping to acclimatize early enough and make a mark next Saturday at the Eldoret Sports Club. The soldiers - who for years dominated the national championships, producing two five-time champions John Ngugi and Paul Tergat among a galaxy of other world beaters – have never won the senior men’s since 2003 when John Cheruiyot Korir completed his brace, having reigned supreme for the first time in 2001. The senior men’s title has evaded KDF for 23 years now. The strong KDF team consists of Kibiwott Kandie, Lawi Komen, Vedic Cheruiyot, Jirus Songok, Stephen Arita and Frankline Ngelel in the senior men’s team while world 5,000 metres champion Hellen Obiri leads Perin Nengampi, Deborah Samum, Dorcas Kimeli, Irene Kamais and Mercy Wanjiru in the women’s side. The mixed relay team consists of Judy Chepngetich, Winnie Chebet, Jarinter Mawia, Benjamin Kigen, Patrick Rono and Charles Simotwo. According to the soldiers’ head coach David Lamai, the team has been preparing well and they will be eyeing to win all the three categories. “We have been in Eldoret where the athletes have been training both here and in Iten in a bid to claim victory which our friends National Police Service have been enjoying for a while. The team is strong and we are looking forward to good results,” said Lamai. He also said that the team named is fresh blood and the other athletes should expect stiff competition. “We have fresh athletes the likes of Hellen Obiri whom she has never participated in the cross country races but she has been focused to leading the team in victory,” added Lamai. The KDF Athletics Kenya chairman Brigadier Daniel Pyaban visited the team at the camp where he assured them of the support from the headquarters urging them to do well when they line up for the race next weekend. “The field is rich and the athletes are very good but I believe our team has done all the necessary preparations and they will have something to deliver on that day,” Pyaban. Lawi Komen, an officer based at Moi Airbase in Nairobi, is optimistic that he will once again repeat what he did in Nairobi by winning the race. “I have seen the start list and I know the race will be tight because the athletes we are competing with are very good. It will be tight but I hope to repeat what I did in Nairobi,” said Komen who also clinched the Kapsokwony AK Cross Country series. The experienced long track distance and former 10,000m world champion Sally Barsosio was among the officials who visited the athletes at the camp. The team selected will be heading to Kigari Teachers College in Embu for residential training ahead of the championships.  