The High Court in Nakuru has released a Form Two student accused of killing a teacher on Sh 300,000 bond. The student was finally freed on Wednesday after he denied killing Mr Peter Mogusu Omare, a teacher of Physics and Computer Studies at Hopewell Secondary School in Rhonda, Nakuru County, on January 24, 2019. Justice Joel Ngugi, however, issued orders barring the Tumaini Secondary School student from going back to his home in Kaptembwa, pending hearing and determination of the matter. He directed that the suspect, who has been in custody for more than a month, be taken to another school away from the area to continue with his studies. SH300,000 BOND “The accused person is hereby granted a personal bond of Sh300,000 with surety of similar amount on condition that he does not visit or reside in Kaptembwa area or its environs,” ruled Justice Ngugi. The ruling followed an application by the State seeking to have the suspect denied bond on grounds that his security was at stake. The prosecution also cited possibility of the suspect interfering with investigations. Nakuru East Directorate of Criminal Investigations boss Jeremiah Kikuyu, who appeared before court last week, said tension was still high in Kaptembwa as angry residents were still baying for the suspect’s blood. MURDER WEAPON He said that the police, who were still looking for the murder weapon, needed two more weeks to conclude their search. The suspect’s lawyer Peter Bore, however, successfully persuaded the court to grant the bond. Mr Bore told the court that the suspect, who is still a student, needed to continue with his studies and that his parents had already made arrangements to transfer him to another school. The suspect was arrested on January 24, 2019 in connection with the murder of Mr Omare who was clobbered to death after he confiscated a mobile phone from a student. The teacher was attacked and killed few meters from the school compound as he left for his house. The case will be mentioned on April 10.   The learner is accused of murdering Mr Peter Mogusu Omare.