The decision by a single mother to decline a house from President Uhuru Kenyatta saying it was not the perfect gift the Head of State intended has sparked heated debate on social media platforms. Ms Damaris Wambui Kamau, whose son Dennis Ngaruiya cracked President Kenyatta’s ribs with a thrilling poem four years ago, said the house gift in Murunyu in Nakuru County is substandard. The house compound is overgrown with weeds and some of the window panes are broken. Its porous barbed wire fence and a wobbling wooden gate are a stark reminder the owner is yet to occupy the house. FUNNY POEM Her son’s journey to stardom started when he met President Kenyatta in October 2014 during the Kenya Defence Forces day celebrations in Lanet, Nakuru. During the colourful ceremony, Master Ngaruiya recited a poem, Our Father, that left Mr Kenyatta in stitches. “This is a big joke. Look at this house. It has cracks on the outside and looks like a semi-permanent house while President Kenyatta in his wisdom meant well for us as a family,” said Ms Kamau at the site on Friday. But many readers who reacted to the Nation story expressed their anger and dissatisfaction with the manner the issue was handled following the presidential directive. 'POOR STANDARDS' “Whoever is involved in this scam should be arrested. The houses that Governor Lee Kinyanjui and Red Cross are building for Solai Dam victims are far much better than this,” said Mr Moses Esekon. Another person, Mr Akoko wrote: “This is bad behaviour particularly when the President is busy fighting corruption. They should have built her a smart house.” “Surely can this be a house built by State House! Ata ya sungura haiwezi kaa hivi (even a rabbit hutch can’t look like this),” wrote Mr Dennis Okomol. Mr James Mwaura who is also the personal assistant to Governor Lee Kinyanjui called for speedy conclusion of the matter. “This matter need to be sorted out as soon as possible. This lady has voiced her objection for too long,” said Mr James Mwaura, who is the personal assistant to Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui. “Someone is misleading this woman. Her son’s school fees is catered for by the President. Let her continue living in a mud house in Lanet. She is a rude and disrespectful citizen. She should learn to appreciate,” said an anonymous contributor to the debate. “I find it strange that someone who got a shelter built free has the audacity to reject it. The work of a President is not necessarily to build free houses,” said Mr Peter Maina. Sheikh Alhaji Suleiman wrote: “Mama Dennis should accept the house and move on. The tricksters had their way and it may not be reversible.” “Let me wait for President Kenyatta reaction on the latest drama. But I guess the lady and friends had fixed notion that the President gave a mega jackpot,” wrote JB Bosco. Responding on Facebook, Ms Nancie Kambura said the woman should be grateful that she now has land. Instead of complaining, Ms Kambura said, the woman should demolish the house and build a new one.   Ms Damaris Wambui Kamau says building not what President Kenyatta had in mind.