A section of leaders from Mt Kenya and another group dubbed Diaspora Leaders Forum have renewed attack on Tanga Tanga group, accusing movement leaders of disobeying presidential directive to halt early campaigns. At the weekend, the battalion of lawmakers drawn mostly from central Kenya camped at Kangema in Murang’a County where they dared those in the Tanga Tanga group to either respect President Uhuru Kenyatta or quit the Jubilee Party. The function was attended by several lawmakers, among them Maina Kamanda (nominated), Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri Town), Paul Koinange (Kiambaa), Muturi Kigano (Kangema), Naomi Shaban (Taveta) and a host of Nyeri and Muranga ward representatives. RESIGN Former Dagoreti South MP Dennis Waweru said Tanga Tanga group leaders in Mt Kenya region had forgot ‘too fast’ how they hung on the President's coattails to be elected, warning them to comply with Mr Kenyatta’s directive to stop early campaigns. "If they think their master can assist them secure their elective positions, let them resign and seek fresh mandate under their master," Mr Waweru said. Kiambaa MP urged the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to fast-track corruption cases, claiming that proceeds of graft were being used by some politicians to criss-cross the country. "There is no smaller or bigger thief. All of them must be apprehended, and if need be hanged to serve as examples to potential thieves," he said. LIFESYTLE AUDIT His sentiments were echoed by Mr Kamanda, who claimed that some Cabinet secretaries had amassed so much wealth that they are now building “bullet proof” houses. "We shall also pile pressure on government to conduct lifestyle audit on Cabinet secretaries and all the MPs. Some of us have served in ministries but we don't have the abnormal wealth like some of the current CSs," he claimed. The politicians said they only recognize Mr Kenyatta as their leader. REGIONAL KINGPINS Ms Shaban said every region had its head and pleaded with Mt Kenya region to respect the Head of State. "If you go to Kamba land, we have Mr Kalonzo Musyoka, in Rift Valley we have Dr Ruto, Raila Odinga in Nyanza and Mr Kenyatta in central. Let me remind the lost leaders that it's not negotiable to support your king," she said. The leaders said they will be attending a church service together to tame Tanga Tanga group until the Head of State is respected. "If it were not for the President, I would not be in Parliament today. He came to Nyeri and pleaded with locals to elect me. So it’s my business to demand that the Head of State is respected," Mr Ngunjiri Wambugu said.   Some Kalenjin leaders convinced government is biased in its quest to end corruption.