USING CRICKETS TO MAKE POULTRY FEEDS I want to start broiler and improved Kienyeji chicken farming projects. I will use crickets as the major source of proteins because I wish to formulate my own feeds. Where can I get advice or literature on commercial production of crickets? Secondly, I also need formulas for making broiler starter, finisher, growers and improved Kienyeji mashes. The other feed materials available in my area are maize, maize germ, wheat bran, rice polish/bran, desmodium and maize cobs. Peter Nduva Broiler production is a profitable enterprise to venture into. Within 35-42 days, the birds are ready for the market. For them to gain weight on time, they need high quality feeds starting with the broiler starter and broiler finisher, clean drinking water always, proper vaccination programme, housing and market survey. Consistency in supply is a major challenge where you find that farmers only have ready to sell broilers in one month and the next month they don’t. Depending on where you sell your broilers, plan your production to have ready birds either every month, two or three months. Kienyeji chickens are birds that have improved growth and egg production compared to the traditional ones. They are dual-purpose birds meaning we keep them both for meat and eggs. They are hardy and liked by many Kenyans. Poultry feeds are made depending on available feed ingredients. We have energy feed ingredients like maize, wheat, barley, oats, rice, maize germ, maize bran, wheat pollard, rice bran, and triticale. Protein sources include soybean meal, fishmeal, sunflower meal, canola cake, crickets, and black soldier fly larvae, among others. You need machinery like hammer mills and feed mixers for feed making. Dennis Kigiri,Department of Animal Sciences,Egerton University. **** BLACK SOLDER FLIES FARMING I want to start farming black soldier flies. How can I get help? Joseph Wamai Protein sources for animal feeds are expensive compared to energy. For example, a kilo of fishmeal is Sh100 while maize is Sh30. There is also an increasing demand for protein sources. Scientists are thus looking for other protein sources that can be used to feed animals. They include crickets, grasshoppers, termites and black soldier larvae. The black soldier fly, which resembles a skinny black wasp, is an insect known for its ability to decompose organic matter. It converts manure and organic feed into nutritional meal for animals. There are many people who are farming black soldier flies in Kenya. The larvae has crude protein of between 44-48 per cent. The International Centre of Insect Physiology and Ecology (Icipe) trains farmers on how to rear the flies. Also, talk to Kenya Climate Innovation on +254703034701. Dennis Kigiri,Department of animal sciences,Egerton University. **** MARKET FOR SEEDLINGS I would like to be linked up with a marketing expert. I have a propagation nursery where I grow various plants ranging from vegetables to fruit seedlings. I would like to get more information on where to sell my products. Kimani Jay, Eldoret You need a marketing plan to help you address this matter. This can be part of a comprehensive agribusiness plan that will address all matters on selling your produce, including costs and projections associated with the venture. Kindly send me an e-mail on dickson@agriplus.co.ke for further engagement on the matter. Dickson Otieno,Centre of Excellence in Sustainable Agriculture and Agribusiness Management (CESAAM). **** I NEED HORTICULTURE INDUSTRY JOB I hold a Bachelor of Science in Horticulture degree from Maseno University (2005) and I have a post-graduation work experience. Please connect me to a job since I currently work seasonally. Antony Simbowo It appears you did not create network with your colleagues of the 2005 class. Horticulture programme is very marketable if you are seriously looking for a job. However, try General Manager, Simba Farm, head office: Sadani House, Riverside, P.O. Box 32201-00600, Nairobi, Kenya. T: +254-20-4453970/1/2/3/4 www.aaagrowers.co.ke Peter Caleb Otieno, Department of Crops Horticulture, and Soils, Egerton University. **** PRICES OF HORTICULTURE PRODUCE Is there a website I can visit to research about horticultural crop prices?Claudie Sophie, Machakos Yes, there are several online. Just search and you will be spoilt for choice. Peter Caleb Otieno, Department of Crops Horticulture, and Soils, Egerton University. **** PASSION FRUIT SEEDLINGS I farm in Kitale and I am currently looking for passion fruit seedlings. Any recommendations? Chris Kariuki Passion fruit seedlings have so many varieties, please specify which one you need. In addition, if you get advice from agriculture departments near Kitale, please note that people like the purple type and this cannot grow well in the soil without a proper resistant rootstock. For a good rootstock, we also advise you go for purple passion fruit grafted on a yellow passion rootstock. Peter Caleb Otieno, Department of Crops Horticulture, and Soils, Egerton University. **** QUALITY BABY CORN SEEDS I need baby corn seedlings, where can I get them? Antony Njiri, Murang’a Baby corn is propagated from seeds, which are available from seed companies like Royal Seed, Kenya Seed Company and Simlaw Seeds. Carol MutuaDepartment of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** U-15 OR OKHALE MILLET SEEDS Please share the contacts of Egerton Seed Unit, I want their millet seeds. Also, please guide me on where I can get U-15 or Okhale seeds? I tried the P224 from Kenya Seed but it did not germinate Caleb Osieri The contact is egertonseedunit@gmail.com. You can get U-15 or Okhale from the nearest Kalro office or ICRISAT. Carol Mutua,Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** DAIRY GOAT KEEPING I am Alex. I would like to start zero-grazing dairy goat farming. I was advised to rear Alpine. Where can I buy and at what cost? Dairy goat farming was started in the 1950s by white settlers but it was not until 1980s that Germany sponsored an integrated small livestock project that scaled the activities around Mt Kenya. As the project wound up in 1993, farmers came together and formed the Dairy Goats Association of Kenya (DGAK). The common breeds reared in Kenya are Toggenburg, Saanen, British Alpine, and German Alpine. Goat farming in Kenya has many benefits. First is that they require little capital and investment, and care and management is very easy. They also need less labour, while the country’s climate or weather is very suitable for goat farming. The animals have good return on invest. Goat products like meat and milk have a great demand in the international and local markets. Through the animals, you can easily meet the nutritional demand of your family, besides, the animals are a great income source. To get Alpine goats in Nyeri, call graduate farmer organisation on 0798857668. Dennis Kigiri,Department of Animal Sciences,Egerton University.   For enquiries on agribusiness and farming, send your questions to: satnation@ke.nationmedia.com