Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has hinted at the formation of a new coalition comprising his party, Jubilee, ODM and others, which will be able to produce the prime minister after the referendum. Mr Musyoka, who is leading a convention of Wiper leaders dubbed Koma Rock II, at the same time said that despite a revolt by Ukambani governors, they are part of the community and he respects their different opinion. “If I can unite South Sudan and Somalia, and if President Uhuru Kenyatta can accept I go before him to Democratic Republic of Congo for the inauguration of President Tshisekedi, then, how can I agree for anyone to be ostracised? Even those who are not with us, they are part of us,” he said. The Wiper leader has been facing rebellion from Ukambani governors led by former Wiper chairman Prof Kivutha Kibwana. While addressing the crowd which had gathered at the Kiamba Primary School grounds, Tala, Matungulu Constituency, the former vice-president said he reached out to the governors. He said upon speaking with Prof Kibwana, he told him that he was in South Korea, Mrs Charity Ngilu feared to be booed while Dr Alfred Mutua was not available over the phone. “It is their democratic right to aspire to vie for any leadership position. But they should play by the rules of the game,” said Mr Musyoka and added that he looked forward to having them in Koma Rock III. Mr Musyoka said the proposed referendum will solve divisions in the country. “ We have found a solution, we are going to amend the constitution for an all inclusive country,” he said. DIVISIVE POLITICS He added the amendment will help deal with negative ethnicity and politics of division. Mr Musyoka defended himself against allegations that he has not helped the Kamba community by bringing development in the region. "I was never a governor and I do not aspire to be one. Despite the fact that I did not have the funding from the government, I sourced for funds externally to start some of the projects including water projects and roads," he said. He stressed on the need to support the President in his fight against corruption. "I joined Uhuru so that I may help in the fight against corruption. Youth do not have jobs, there is a lot of poverty as a result corruption," he said. Mr Musyoka said he is not only uniting the Kamba community but the entire country and requested the community to support President Kenyatta in his quest to implement the 'Big Four' agenda. Among the leaders who were present at the convention include Governor Gideon Mbuvi, Chirau Ali Makwere, Wavinya Ndeti, Senator Enock Wambua, former MP Joe Mutambo and Kalembe Ndile and other Wiper MPs and ward representatives from Kitui, Machakos and Kitui.   Thirty four Machakos ward reps dare acting Wiper Party chairman to quit.