SportPesa Premier League (SPL) leaders Mathare United will be seeking to extend their lead at the top of the 2018/19 standings with a win against struggling Mount Kenya United at Afraha stadium on Saturday as the league enters round 10 this weekend. The Slum Boys, who settled for a barren draw against rivals Kariobangi Sharks in midweek, have amassed 24 points, six ahead of closest-challengers Bandari, who host spluttering AFC Leopards at Mbaraki Sports club on Sunday. Mathare coach Francis Kimanzi has admitted to pressure but remained calm heading into this clash. “I don’t think we were explosive in the last match but we’ve to try to improve in terms of technical and tactical aspect in the next match,” said Kimanzi. Mathare have a single win in four meetings against Mount Kenya United, formerly known as Nakumatt FC, with one game ending in a draw. Bottom-placed Mount Kenya, who fell 2-1 away to Nzoia Sugar last weekend, thrashed Mathare 4-0 in the second leg of last season at Camp Toyoyo grounds, a result Kimanzi would not wish to pick at Afraha. Ulinzi Stars, who’ve drawn the last three games, host limping Chemelil Sugar in the late kick-off at the same venue. On Sunday, Leopards face a stern test against Bandari, whose unbeaten record of eight games was shattered by Kakamega Homeboyz who spanked them 4-0 on Wednesday. Ingwe, placed 12th on the table, have six wins against the Dockers’ five in 17 meetings. Six of the games have all ended in a draw. Second-placed Bandari have won three of the last five matches against Ingwe. Cash-strapped Vihiga United, who suffered a 3-1 loss to Mathare last Sunday, visit an Allan Wanga's Kakamega Homeboyz at Bukhungu stadium. “We just want to keep winning to improve our position,” said interim player/coach Wanga who netted a brace in midweek. Victory against Sofapaka in Machakos could send sixth-ranked Kariobangi Sharks to fourth position. “The league is still open, anyone can win it we need to collect points early,” said Sharks coach William Muluya who has met Batoto ba Mungu five times winning twice with three matches ending in a draw. FIXTURES Saturday Mount Kenya United v Mathare United (Afraha stadium, 2pm) Posta Rangers v Tusker (Kenyatta stadium, Machakos, 3pm) Ulinzi Stars v Chemelil Sugar (Afraha stadium, 4.15pm) Sunday Bandari v AFC Leopards (Mbaraki sports club, 3pm) Zoo Kericho v KCB (Kericho Green stadium, 3pm) Kariobangi Sharks v Sofapaka (Kenyatta stadium, 3pm) Nzoia Sugar v Sony Sugar (Sudi stadium, 3pm) Kakamega Homeboyz v Vihiga United (Bukhungu stadium, 3pm)   Mount Kenya United, who are without a win, host leaders Mathare United.