There was no way we were going to do without “wild cards” especially in cross country. That is why I was relieved when it was announced that only the top four athletes across the line in this weekend’s national cross country trials in Eldoret will make “Team Kenya” to the IAAF World Cross Country Championships in Aarhus, Denmark, next month. The extra two in each category will be decided by a panel of coaches, or rather, through the wild card system. You all realize that we are just starting the season and we can no longer have everyone in perfect shape. The next one month will be key in getting ready for the Denmark show, hence the reason why we should be careful in our selection. As much as we want to rely on the trials to come up with a team, we must realize that we are going for the world championships and having our best runners will be key. We have had athletes who have impressed and shown consistency since the season started and it will be important to consider them just in case they do not make the cut. Of course, there are those events where wild cards will not even count as long as the coaches are satisfied with the top four. Remember, there are those who will make the team and pick injuries and we cannot afford to ignore wild cards. Youth against experience I just like the way athletes have been psyching themselves up ahead of the Saturday’s show. I believe we will all be waiting for the senior men’s race, which will pit the youth against experience. Edward Zakayo and Rhonex Kipruto have send warning shots to the world cross country champion Geoffrey Kamworor, telling him to brace up for a long day. Whether they will realize their dream this time round remains to be seen. However, it will be a close race. The Senior women’s race will be the other interesting race to watch with the likes of world 5,000m champion, Hellen Obiri, former world cross champion Agnes Tirop, two-time world Under-20 3,000 metres champion Cellphine Chepteek, 2015 All Africa Games champion, 5,000m medallist Margaret Chelimo, former 3,000m steeple champion Hyvin Kiyeng and former Africa cross country champ Alice Aprot all chasing top honours. The junior races will be a free-for-all and consistency will be key. The move to only accommodate athletes through regions is a brilliant idea. We have had problems in the past dealing with individual athletes since they hardly adhere to the rules. We want to develop structures where regions are responsible for deeds of their athletes. Finally, allow me to thank the Athletics Kenya’s Central Rift branch for burning midnight oil to ensure Eldoret hosts the first national cross country event outside Nairobi. Korir is the chairman of Athletics Kenya’s Nairobi branch. barnabakorir@yahoo.com  