Detectives have arrested six people in connection to the death of human rights activist Caroline Mwatha. The Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti, in a statement issued Tuesday evening, said the suspects were arrested over Ms Mwatha’s alleged botched abortion and disposal of her body at a city morgue. SUSPECTS The six individuals arrested include Betty Akinyi Nyanya alias Betty Ramoya, Richard Ramoya Abudo (Betty’s son), Georgia Achieng Tabitha and Michael Onchiri alias Dr Mike. Others are Alexander Gitau Gikonya (boyfriend) and Stephen Maina (an Uber driver), according to the DCI. “The said woman was lastly seen on February 6 by her relatives. DCI officers launched investigations and it was established that Caroline was in constant communication with one Alexander Gitau Gikonyo who is known to be working in Isiolo County,” read in part the statement. Mr Kinoti said there was communication relating to an intended abortion of a five-month old pregnancy between Caroline and Alexander. He said that it was further established that an unidentified doctor had demanded a fee of Sh7, 000 and after negotiations the cost was reduced to Sh6, 000 which was sent to the lady by Alexander. Thereafter, on February 6, the late went to a clinic known as New Njiru Community Centre within Dandora Phase 1 to procure an abortion. “It is believed that an abortion procedure was procured by the owner of the clinic namely Betty Akinyi Nyanya and one purported “Dr” Michael Onchiri alias Dr Mike,” said Kinoti. Mr Kinoti explained that the investigators believe that Caroline died at the clinic before the body was transferred to Nairobi City Mortuary on February 7 at 4.42am. “This is confirmed by records at the City Mortuary although the deceased name was captured as Carol Mbeki under tag No.1495. Records also at the mortuary indicate the body was brought by a motor vehicle registration number KBP 677B,” he said. He has, however, called for patience as the investigators continue with investigations. “We wish to condole with the family of the deceased and assure them that justice will be done in this matter. Any person involved in any manner in this death will be brought to book,” said the DCI boss.   Police arrest doctor and owner of a clinic where she had gone for an abortion.