The Ministry of Education has now suspended issuance of tablets to Class One pupils under the digital literacy programme, opting instead to build computer laboratories. Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang has said that each of the 25,000 public primary schools will get one computer laboratory. “There has been a policy change in programme from one child-one laptop to the construction of computer laboratories for ICT integration,” Dr Kipsang told National Assembly’s Education Committee while presenting budgetary proposals. When MPs questioned the plan, Dr Kipsang said that construction of the labs was part of phase two of the project. The one laptop per child idea in Jubilee’s Digital Learning Programme was meant, ostensibly, to entrench ICT in teaching and learning in primary schools. UNPREPARED But during rollout in May 2016 the policy shifted from laptops to tablets due to cost implications. However, various government reports indicate that the project has failed and teachers are not prepared. A Ministry of Education report in December returned a shocking verdict on the multibillion-shilling project as it found that national implementation stands at a paltry five percent. “While supply and installation in schools stands at approximately 95 percent nationally, implementation ails at five percent in terms of utilisation of the equipment,” the report which was prepared by former acting Moi University Vice Chancellor Laban Ayiro reads. FORM ONES Meanwhile, Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed said 92 percent of students have so far reported to secondary schools under the 100 percent transition programme. However, Ms Mohamed said the ministry is currently compiling data ensure that all learners are supplied with the necessary reading materials. “The ministry is now working to account for the remaining 80,000 candidates to close this year’s admission process,” she said in Nairobi.   Auditor-General Edward Ouko said his office was yet to start an audit of the tablet project.