Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i Tuesday chaired his first Cabinet meeting, slightly more than a week after President Kenyatta appointed him to head the newly formed National Development Implementation and Communication Committee. The meeting was attended by 17 Cabinet secretaries, including Attorney-General Paul Kihara and Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua. “The committee discussed challenges constraining effective execution and delivery of service and how to solve them,” read a statement signed by Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho. Dr Kibicho said the committee would provide a weekly report to the President and offer recommendations on how to address the challenges. President Kenyatta reorganised his government through an executive order, creating a four-tier executive authority with Dr Matiang'i at the helm. Last Thursday, the President warned CSs against endless politicking and challenged them to choose between politics and implementation of the government agenda. While addressing Kitengela residents on his way to Arusha, the President urged elected leaders to serve the people and stop politicking. REGULATORY The Cabinet committee will supervise the execution of government programmes and comprises all Cabinet secretaries, the AG and the Head of Public Service. Meanwhile, Dr Matiang'i Tuesday unveiled a new National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA) board and promised to restructure the agency to restore public confidence in it. He said corruption within the agency had aided terrorists in the DusitD2 hotel attack that claimed 21 lives. "I’m aware that this is a judicial process but I need to be honest and straight up with Kenyans that NTSA is now in my ministry and I take full responsibility of it,” he said. He went on: “I assure you that we will clean it up, reorganise and ensure it provides the regulatory functions required of them by the law," said the CS, who was accompanied by Dr Kibicho, NTSA Director-General Francis Meja and other government officials. The new NTSA Board members are Mr John Ndege Obwocha, Ms Catherine Njeri Waweru, Ms Alice Chepchumba Chesire and Mr Francis Kiriinya. The CS also appointed Mr Moses Nderitu Giachemi and Meshack Kidenda to represent groups with special interests in the transportation industry.   Instead of continuously lamenting, President Kenyatta should shake up the Cabinet.