Residents of Athwana in Tigania West, Meru, staged protests for the third time in two years demanding answers over a Sh152 million irrigation project which stalled in 2016. Dozens of residents marched for about 10 kilometers to seek audience with Tigania West Deputy County Commissioner Stanslaus Apwokha, whom they p a petition. Kingirwa irrigation project, which taps water from Nyambene ranges, was launched by the then Water and Irrigation Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa in March 2016 and was to be completed in nine months. DRY TAPS But three years later, taps remain dry in the project which was to put over 200 acres under irrigated agriculture and benefit 600 families at a cost of Sh152.3 million. Speaking to the Nation by phone, irrigation PS Prof Fred Segor said the project failed to kick off after the main pipeline was destroyed by flood waters. He said the project has also been bogged by conflicts among water users. “We will be sending a technical team to the ground to assess the damage caused by the floods for repairs. To ensure sufficient flow of water, we will also construct a reservoir,” Prof Segor said. He said there was need for beneficiaries to form irrigation water users’ associations to control its use in farming activities. “The water was meant to serve 641 farmers but due to the large number of beneficiaries, irrigation water is not sufficient. We had agreed on rotational farming with strict management. But the problem is everyone wanted to use it at the same time. The problem is there are more users than available water,” he said. However, Mr Nturibi Etirikia, a resident, accused government officials of paying for an incomplete project. EACC “The project was to include storage tanks but none can be seen. Why was the contractor paid without completing the works? Who issued the completion certificate without engaging the committee overseeing the project? Mr Etirikia posed. Mr Peter Akunu said despite reporting the matter to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC), and other relevant offices, nothing had happened. “Tigania West MP John Mutunga told us that a team had been sent to investigate the matter, but no report has been made public. It is unfortunate that the government records indicate the project is complete yet there is no water. We are suffering,” Mr Akunu said. The beneficiaries now want the auditor general and the EACC to probe how the money was spent saying they have never benefited from Kingirwa Irrigation Scheme.  