The killers of businesswoman Mary Wambui sought help from another motorist to ferry her body from Four Ways Junction estate on Kiambu Road where the incident is said to have happened, to Juja, where it was found a day later. Detectives investigating the murder, which took place on January 26, Monday arrested a suspect who is believed to have ferried the body using a Toyota Noah, whose whereabouts police are yet to locate. Those privy to the ongoing investigation said the suspect, who might be produced before Kiambu Law Courts on Tuesday, or Wednesday, was lured into a police trap Monday afternoon. Meanwhile, preliminary investigations, as revealed by a source privy to the investigation, indicated that Wambui’s husband, Mr Joseph Kori, who is detained alongside his girlfriend, Ms Judy Wangui, may have not have been at the murder scene. Kiambu County Directorate of Criminal Investigations boss Amos Tebey last evening declined to give an update on the investigations as that could jeopardise their investigations. He only said that his officers were doing a good job. However, multiple sources within the police indicated that with the arrest of the suspect linked to ferrying the body, detectives on the case may have made a major breakthrough that could help solve the murder mystery. COMMUNICATION The motorist, who recorded part of his statement last evening, according to police sources, drove to Ms Wangui’s residence around midnight using a Toyota Noah, a KCK registration number, the same night Ms Wambui was murdered. He left shortly after. Tracking of his movements, police say, indicate that he went to Juja, where he left around 2am. Police believe he is among the people who ferried the body that was discovered a day later. “After checking in at Four Ways, his movements showed that he left and went directly to Juja, where he left at 2am, and was in constant communication with Judy,” a detective privy to the investigations, but who cannot be named because he is not authorised to speak to the media, said. Detectives found bloodstained clothes and blood swabs. Police believe the bloodstains belong to Ms Wambui, a mother of two, who until her death ran a successful hardware business at Kahawa West estate. The clothes will be subjected to DNA analysis. According to police sources, the suspect, who is also said to have rented a car, a KCE, to Ms Wangui, which she reportedly used to drive to Wambui’s home at Safari Park Garden, later left it at Homeland Inn, Thika Road, after it allegedly failed to start. Last evening, detectives investigating the murder, were for the better part of the day analysing CCTV footage retrieved from the Four Ways Junction estate, as they tried to establish the movements of the suspects and Ms Wambui before the murder. TAXI DRIVER According to the footage, Ms Wambui and Ms Wangui, after spending most part of the day together, drove to the estate at 6.24pm, using the former’s white Mercedes Benz car. They were captured getting clearance at the gate. The police are also looking for a taxi driver, who is said to have rejected the offer to ferry the body and who police said was captured while registering at the gate. The gate of the estate is manned by security guards 24 hours a day, and all visitors are required to register in a book and leave either their identity card or drisving licenses before being cleared with the authority of the people they are going to visit. Further, police say taxi drivers must have either left their national identification cards, or driving licences with the security guards before being cleared to go to Ms Wangui’s residence where the killing is believed to have been carried out.   The murder raises concern about the increasing cases of family killings, especially where multiple partners are involved.