Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko has defended his colleagues following claims of division in the Cabinet over the appointment of Interior CS Fred Matiang’i as 'chief minister'. There had been reports that some ministers were against President Uhuru Kenyatta's decision to put Dr Matiang'í in charge of the implementation of all government projects. While accusing unnamed leaders and the media of politicising the matter, Mr Tobiko maintained that Cabinet members were working as a team. "I assure Kenyans that there are no divisions in the Cabinet as has been alleged. We are all working as a team to deliver the Big Four Agenda that the President promised,” he said in Rumuruti town. BIG FOUR The CS further noted that the government was intact and that they were all supportive of the leadership of President Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. He termed the allegations lies being perpetrated by leaders opposed to the government. Mr Tobiko challenged elected leaders to concentrate on fulfilling their promises instead of politicking prematurely, which he said was a stumbling block to development. "Unite and join the President in realising his four development agendas in the remaining years, " he reiterated. THE ROLE The Interior minister is the chair of the new National Development Implementation and Communication Committee, with Treasury's Henry Rotich as the deputy. President Uhuru Kenyatta issued the executive order on January 21, saying Dr Matiang’i would lead the team charged with supervising all government projects, including the Big Four - food security, affordable housing, manufacturing and universal health coverage. The team is made up of all the Cabinet secretaries, Attorney-General Paul Kihara, and Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua. He is now harnessing the influence of political leaders and seems to be opting for dialogue to avoid friction, having been know for bulldozing his way into reforms in the Education and Interior ministries.   Interior minister to chair a new committee of all CSs.