The family of a Kenyan activist who went missing for a week before turning up dead, have questioned police claims she died of a botched abortion, and demanded a post-mortem . Caroline Mwatha went missing last Wednesday, prompting Amnesty International to raise the alarm over her disappearance, given her sensitive work lobbying against extra-judicial killings by police. 'BOTCHED ABORTION' Police announced on Tuesday she had been found at City Mortuary, and that investigations had shown "the intended abortion of a five-month old pregnancy". A police statement from Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti said Mwatha had been communicating with a boyfriend who sent her Sh6,000 to procure the abortion, and had been admitted to the mortuary under a fake name last Thursday. He said six people, including the owner of the clinic, a doctor and the alleged boyfriend, have been arrested. However many Kenyans are sceptical over the cause of her death, due to a long history of state violence, police brutality and extrajudicial killings which go unpunished. "We have never seen Caro with a pregnancy, she was not pregnant, how can she have been aborting?" her father Stanslus Mbai told journalists at the mortuary. "It is puzzle to us. Very strange because I have looked at the body. She has a deep cut on the thigh and stomach, is that abortion?" He also questioned why her phone had kept ringing during the time she was missing, and said he had received a missed call from her number during the time she was reportedly already dead. "A lot is not adding up, this is a cover up," he said. 'NOTHING BUT TRUTH' "We want the truth and nothing but the truth in this. We must have an independent post-mortem to know the truth." Authorities have said they are waiting for the government pathologist to arrive from Naivasha, some 80 kilometres from the capital, to carry out the post-mortem. Mwatha's husband Joshua Ochieng, who has been living in Dubai, was also suspicious: "The body has a very big cut on the thigh, how can that be an abortion?" Khalid Hussein, a director at human rights organisation Haki Africa, also demanded a swift post-mortem. "What is this they are trying to hide? The truth must be known because we are not buying this theory."   Police arrest doctor and owner of a clinic where she had gone for an abortion.