In controversial, sensitive and investigative stories you will often find phrases like “no comment” and “could not be reached for comment”. What do they really mean? A whole lot of meanings, depending on the story. The phrases creep into stories because journalists often reach out to people involved in an issue in the news or who are in a position to shed more light on it. Getting people to comment can be one of the most challenging, and rewarding, journalistic tasks. People decline to comment for a variety of reasons. These include fear of self-incrimination, reprisals and being misquoted, or being uncomfortable with the subject matter, and not wanting to enter a fight they cannot gain from. So they say “no comment” or refuse to pick up calls or messages as a way of refusing to answer a journalist’s questions. SPECULATE However, the “no comment” or refusal to talk to a journalist is a comment in itself, though the person may wish to say nothing. But it’s not the best response a person can give because it allows the journalist and readers to speculate — and fill in the blanks, so to speak. And this can lead to the wrong information being communicated. Consider the following cases: Journalist: Governor, how long have you been paying suppliers for goods not delivered? Governor: No comment. Journalist: Do you approve the caning of students? Headmaster: I’ve nothing to say on this matter. Journalist: It’s said the boy died after he was hit several times by a prefect. Is this the information you have? The head teacher declines to respond and walks away in a huff. SCANDALS Sometimes the meaning of “no comment” or refusal to talk is not so obvious. But there is always a meaning, no matter how hidden. In the front page investigative story on the Galana-Kulalu irrigation project, “Jubilee’s Sh7bn project collapses” (Saturday Nation, February 23, 2019), the Israeli project director refuses to comment on the scandal. “I don’t want to talk about the government, the employer (the National Irrigation Board), or the project. I’m just not interested,” Mr Ofir Meroz tells journalist Nyambega Gisesa. But what is Mr Meroz trying to tell readers; that his company, Green Arava, contracted to build the model farm, is as guilty, or that Kenya is a banana republic? In the story, “Concerns raised over scandal-hit Italian dam builder”(Daily Nation, February 16), journalist Kipchumba Some writes: “(Lawyer Ahmednasir) Abdullahi declined to comment for this article, but our independent sources with knowledge of the matter said that the lawyer told the detectives that his client cannot incriminate itself by admitting to the corruption allegations.” PR DISASTER What message does Mr Abdullahi intend to convey by refusing to comment? Is it the same as given by “our independent sources”? In the story, “Sugar miller on the spot for polluting Lake Victoria waters”, published on February 24, journalist Victor Raballa says: “Kibos Sugar chairman Raju Chanan could not be reached for comment as his phone calls and messages went unanswered.” Is Mr Chanan unreachable, dodging the reporter, or is the journalist just plain lazy? And so it goes on and on. Some people think they have nothing to gain by commenting, that they can make things worse by commenting, or they cannot give a good answer. But they are still telling us something by not talking. Some PR practitioners argue “no comment” is a public relations disaster. FAIRNESS What concerns us here, though, is the need to make a story as objective as possible. Fairness requires a journalist to give a balanced view, in which all sides of a story are covered. A journalist needs to show he has tried to cover the story from all angles. If a source declines to comment, the journalist includes in the story the “no comment” for what it’s worth. If a source cannot be reached, the journalist puts that information too in the story, to show he tried to reach out. If the story sounds one-sided, it’s not entirely the fault of the journalist. Send your complaints to publiceditor@ke.nationmedia.com. Call or text 0721 989 264   Getting people to comment can be one of the most challenging, and rewarding, journalistic tasks.