World Cross Country silver medallist Leonard Barsoton is optimistic he will make the final team when he lines up on February 23 for the National Cross Country Championships at Eldoret Sports Club. The Japan-based athlete jetted back in January and has been camping in Iten, Elgeyo Marakwet County, where he has been sharpening his skills. Nation Sport caught up with him after his long run and he revealed that his preparations have gone well as he seeks to capture a gold medal. He is one of the many athletes who are working and training in Japan, but are always ready to represent the country when championships are being held. “Japan has low altitudes which is good for speed work. I just came to Kenya to train in high altitude and concentrate on endurance. What helps me do well is the discipline for training in Japan which has kept me going,” said Barsoton. The athlete said that it is so hard for one to get a slot in team Kenya because all athletes are good and everyone wants to get a chance. “When it comes to trials, it’s every athlete's dream to get a chance in the six slots and that is why it’s normally a tough battle which is more competitive than the global event itself,” said the athlete. Last year, Barsoton was selected in the team that represented the country in the World Half Marathon Championships, where he emerged fifth. “I was in the team that represented Kenya in World Half Marathon Championships in Valencia and I manage to be in fifth position due to an injury which kept me out of competition until September when I started training,” said Basoton. He is relishing the chance to compete alongside his friend and defending champion Geoffrey Kamworor. “Kamworor is a good athlete and I like competing with him because he is a team player. I would also love to compete with him in Aarhus, Denmark if we make the team,” said the athlete. He is currently employed by the Nissin Foods Company in Japan, where he works and trains at the same time. His eyes are set on the 2020 Olympics Games in his “home town” of Tokyo, where he is looking forward to representing Kenya once again. Barsoton won the gold medal at the Africa Cross Country Championships in Kampala in 2014, before bagging silver during the African Games held in Brazzaville in the 10,000 metres. In 2015, he was selected to represent Kenya in the World Cross Country Championships in Guiyang, China, where he was placed fifth. In 2017, he was selected in Kenya’s World Cross Country Championships team and went on to win silver behind Kamworor in Kampala, Uganda.  