Mathare United snapped their five match winless run in spectacular fashion, leaving it late to beat AFC Leopards 2-0 at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos on Saturday. Substitutes Ronald Reagan and Tyson Otieno were the heroes for the Slum Boys. Introduced in the second half for Kevin Kimani and Chris Ochieng’, both players made their inclusion count. While Reagan broke the deadlock with only four minutes left, Otieno put the result beyond doubt deep in stoppage time. Cliff Nyakeya should have put the visitors ahead at the quarter hour mark but his header came off the bar after Kevin Kimani had picked him out with a cross. It was the perfect response from the men in yellow who could have fallen behind moments earlier but Allan Owiny kept them in the game with a brilliant double save. Chrispin Oduor thought he had won his side a penalty on 35 minutes after he was brought down by Whyvonne Isuza but referee Peter Waweru waved play on. Shortly after the restart, Isuza and Vincent Oburu missed two clear cut chances in quick succession and Francis Kimanzi summoned Reagan to replace Ochieng' at the hour mark. James Kinyanjui was denied by Leopards keeper Eric Ndayishimiye who parried his shot for an abortive corner. On the other end, Johnstone Omurwa had to make a goal line clearance after Jaffari Owiti had beaten Owiny. Then Kimanzi played his second card introducing Otieno for Kimani with 15 minutes left. He later sent Daniel Mwaura into the fray on 85 minutes and a minute later his gamble paid off. Reagan’s goal was a beauty as he cleverly lobbed the ball past an advancing Eric Ndayishimiye and he was also involved in Otieno’s second. He stung Ndayishimiye’s gloves with a rasping shot and the rebound fell kindly for Otieno who buried the rebound into the bottom corner to break Ingwe's resistance and condemn them to their sixth consecutive loss. Mathare United are now second with 29 points, two behind leaders Bandari who had earlier edged Nzoia Sugar 1-0 at Mbaraki Sports Club. In another match played earlier at the same venue, 10-man Posta Rangers were held 1-1 by Ulinzi Stars. John Nairuka scored against his former employers in the 34th minute but Ibrahim Shambi netted the equalizer with a long range drive on 75 minutes. The hosts were reduced to 10 men in the 88th minute after Peter Ng'ang'a was sent off for a nasty stump on Elijah Mwanzia.   Mathare United scored two late goals to beat AFC Leopards.