The scramble for prestigious courses and institutions has kicked off, with 90,744 students who attained a mean grade of C+ and above in last year's KCSE exams starting to select programmes they wish to study. This means that more than 70 universities with a capacity of 110,000 will have to tap into diploma students in order to fill space available for degree programmes. On Wednesday, Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed said 651,189 candidates qualified for placement in tertiary institutions at various levels under government sponsorship and have until February 23 to submit their applications. Some of the most desirable institutions by students are the University of Nairobi, Moi University, Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology and Kenyatta University, while the most sought programmes include engineering, pharmacy, law, computer science and architecture. HELB Speaking during the launch of course revision in Nairobi, Ms Mohamed further said the 121,288 students who scored between C-plain and C-minus in the 2018 KCSE examination are all eligible for placement in diploma courses at TVET institutions under the government sponsorship programme. “In addition, 244,436 who scored D and D+ in the 2018 KCSE are eligible for placement in craft certificate courses in TVET institutions,” Ms mohamed said. She went on: “To guarantee that, we will not drop any candidate who sat the 2018 KCSE, all 194,721 who scored between E and D-minus in the examination are eligible for selection to artisan courses in the existing 800 Vocational Education and Training (VET) institutions.” Ms Mohamed announced that the government had enhanced higher education financing by allocating Sh13.5 billion to the Higher Education Loans Board (Helb) to support learners this financial year. “Currently, Helb is funding students in 74 universities and 130 TVET institutions. The government is looking for resources for enhanced enrolment into TVET institutions across the country. "I therefore encourage more KCSE graduates to apply for admission to approved Ministry of Education TVET institutions,” she said. MERIT She added that the ministry is determined to enhance enrolment into science courses as part of efforts to build capacity to deliver the Big Four agenda. “Further, the TVET courses will produce the competencies needed to transform our country into a newly industrialised, middle-income economy.” She urged those who did not complete applications in school to also use the opportunity to apply. Ms Mohamed said after the revision, the placement service (KUCCPS) will process the applications on merit, taking into account the students’ performance in the KCSE exam, choices, available capacity and affirmative action for gender, the disabled and candidates from marginalised regions. KUCCPS will send officers to various institutions in counties from February 11 to 17 to assist learners in making their applications. “The process will culminate in the final selection of students for admission to universities and TVET institutions, which will be concluded by April 12. "Selection to universities will cater only for the KCSE candidates while placement to TVET institutions will take care of other previous years up to the year 2000,” the Cabinet secretary said. INTAKE She added that a one-month window period will be provided in May for the selected students to apply for inter-institutional transfers. This will be the largest intake in three years for universities. In 2017, 70,073 scored C+ and above while 88,929 students made the cut in 2016. Last year, JKUAT, with a capacity of 5,868 students, received 4,866 while 4,540 students joined the UoN. In private universities, Mount Kenya University received the highest number in the category, 2,247 students against its capacity of 4,995, while Kabarak, received 2,181.  