Human resource practitioners have called for the enactment of a law that will guide change of management and transition in counties when governors leave office. Mr Elijah Sitimah, national chairman of the Institute of Human Resources Management (IHRM), said the passage of such a bill would ensure proper processes where county chiefs and staff are concerned. Mr Sitimah noted that governors have been accused of arbitrary sackings, deployment and suspensions during transitions, with most coming with new employees who are mostly their supporters. “The passage of such a bill would bring stability and offer security of tenure to county employees as the transition of governors would be entrenched in the law," he said. "We have seen new governors removing old boards or coming with new employees through incoherent recruitment, which we do not allow." HURDLES The IHRM boss said the bill was before the Senate for the second reading but that its passage has been frustrated by political and personal interests. “There were attempts to develop a legislation to guide this but personal and political interests prevailed. It is our hope that the bill will be re-tabled in parliament and that President Uhuru Kenyatta will offer leadership through party mechanisms,” he said. Mr Sitimah decried the poor management of human resources at county level, noting lack of policies, arbitrary suspensions of staff, reckless issuance of compulsory leaves and "total lack" of capacity building among personnel. “Politics has become the hallmark of employee appointments, promotions and dismissals. We feel obliged to raise our voice and warn of difficult times ahead in case the trend observed in the past five years is upheld,” said the chairman. BOARDS While noting disregard for competency and qualifications, he further asked governors to ensure that Public Service Boards get qualified members when tenures expire in June. “We demand that qualified and certified members of the HR fraternity be considered in the subsequent appointments in June either as CEO, chair or members. In the past, we have experienced poor recruitment and selections a result of corruption, clannism and nepotism,” he said. Mr Sitimah said that County Government Act requires a board chair to be a holder of Certified Public Secretaries, a fact that they have opposed through a pending amendment sighting qualification inconsistencies in the Act. “We have a pending amendment in parliament to make sure this is changed because the right person should be a qualified HR practitioner who understands the dynamics of managing employees’ preferences and needs. That is why in the past we have had protracted salary disputes,” he said.   The Ministry of Devolution allowed them to form change-over committees.