Kenya Prison’s Samuel Njomo will meet Steve Otieno from Nairobi “B” in lightweight final of the National Novices Boxing Championships that will end on Sunday at Charter Hall, Nairobi. The four-day championships, that attracted a record 124 pugilists from 18 counties, started on Wednesday. Njomo needed a minute to knock out Wayne Nyandero from Murang'a in the first round and set up Otieno, who edged out Vincent Chogo from Busia 3-0 to also advance. Hassan Wanende from Busia also knocked out Kisumu’s Ibrahim Odhiambo in the first round to reach the final of the light welterweight bout. Wanende, who was the third boxer from Busia to storm the final, will now face Vincent Gitahi from Nakuru. Gitahi exploded against Nelson Musa from Vihiga to see the referee Steven Ndungu stop the bout in the first round. Ojiambo Awali from Busia stopped Stanley Museve from Nairobi “A” 3-0 to set up the final welterweight card against Mose Biko from Vihiga. Biko edged out Brandlyn Eshitakwa 3-0 ion the other semi-final bout. Busia’s Silas Wandera has a final showdown with Thomas Mwangi from Kwale in bantamweight. Wandera tore through Stephen Otieno from Mombasa 3-0 while Mwangi claimed similar victory against Peter Mureithi (Muranga). Okiye Oluchukwu (Prisons) will meet Jeseka Omollo (Kakamega) in light heavyweight final while Osama Raden (Prisons) take on Kevin Githika (Nairobi “B”) on heavyweight final. Oluchukwu beat Silverster Oyoo (Kisumu) 3-0 while Omollo bundled out Calvin Ochieng (Kilifi) 3-0 in the semis. Raden knocked out Rajab Ismael in the first round to set up Githika, who outlasted Duncan Otieno (Busia) 3-0. "We are impressed not only by the huge turnout but also the good standards by virtue of the event being for beginners," said the bouts supervisor Albert Matitu. Matitu revealed that the finals on Saturday evening will also feature four women bouts finals. Wellington Busili (Nairob) beat Moses Asanga (Vihiga) to reach super heavyweight final while David Otieno (Vihiga) will meet Dalmas Kyalo (Muranga) in the flyweight final. Otieno floored Moses Owino (Nairobi) for a date with Kyalo who proved no match for Joseph Kamau (Police). Alex Ndunge (Muranga) beat Joseph Okello (Prison) to meet Cyrus Onyango (Nairobi) who beat David Ahmed (Mombasa) in light flyweight final.  