Former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga has accepted the Supreme Court verdict that upheld Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti’s August 8, 2017 election victory. Mr Magwanga had successfully challenged the governor’s victory both at the High Court and Court of Appeal, before the Supreme Court overruled them. In an interview with the Nation, Mr Magwanga, who vied on an independent ticket against Mr Awiti of Orange Democratic Movement (ODM), urged the people of Homa Bay to support the governor. “He (Mr Awiti) should work hard to recover the lost time,” Mr Magwanga said. He emphasised the need for a quick move to avert the nurses’ strike in the county. “In the spirit of the handshake, we have to support him (Mr Awiti) and still remain open for meaningful discussions for the sake of the county,” said Mr Magwanga, who also reiterated his commitment to support ODM despite vying on an independent ticket. ENHANCING DEVELOPMENT “(Mr) Awiti’s government must however, avoid intimidating those perceived to be my supporters including county employees and contractors,” he said. The former legislator promised to be open to discussions and engagements aimed at enhancing development in the county. The governor, who recently underwent an eye surgery, has a daunting task of reorganising his administration. “(Mr) Awiti must now move with speed to reorganise his administration for the sake of efficient service delivery to the people of Homa Bay,” added Mr Magwanga. Mr Awiti, through his communications director Maurice Kaluoch, said his agenda after the long legal battle will be to work towards achieving the government’s Big Four Agenda besides fighting corruption. “My government will collaborate with relevant government authorities to eradicate corruption,” he said. SUPREME COURT "My administration will not only sack corrupt officials, but it will also make sure they are locked up in jail," he said. But even as the former MP welcomed the Supreme Court verdict, his lead counsel in the petition, Mr Charles Kanjama criticised the ruling. “It (the ruling) failed to consider various critical points raised by my clients,” Mr Kanjama said. He went on: “It turned a blind eye to substantial evidence of electoral malpractice and rigging. It is not a good precedent.”   Some locals suggest dissolution of the county government.