Police in Kampala are investigating an alleged robbery at a local bank. Authorities say four unidentified men armed with an AK47 rifle stormed Development Finance Company of Uganda Bank (DFCU) on Appolo Kaggwa Road at 7pm on Monday evening as it was closing. SAFE ACCESS They reportedly ordered three bank staff who were winding up the day's business to lead them to the safe where cash is kept. They assaulted the trio demanding for the keys to the safe in vain. In their statement to police, two of the employees, said the robbers raped their female colleague to compel her to surrender the key. After failing to compel the employees to handover the key, the thugs reportedly tried to cut the safe without success. They left the bank at 10.20pm after storming the CCTV control room and disconnected the cameras. They reportedly made off with the monitor and central processing unit used to store CCTV footage. Outside the bank, the robbers hijacked a Toyota Vitz belonging to one of the employees that was parked at the entrance. Police said the attackers abandoned the vehicle in Busega and vanished. Detectives suspect that two guards attached to Securex deployed to guard the bank were part of the robbery plan. The two guards, who Securex has only identified as Francis E. and Alfred K., are said to be on the run after dumping their guns outside the Bank. Mr Luke Owoyesigyire, the deputy Kampala Metropolitan Police Spokesperson, said they have already begun investigations an hunt for the security guards. REACTION “The information we are getting is that they tried all they can to get access to the safe but they failed. The hunt is on and were able to establish that one vehicle registration UAX 992N was stolen and abandoned in Busega but investigations are ongoing,” Mr Owoyesigyire said. The employee who was reportedly raped has since been admitted at Norvik Hospital on Buganda Road in Kampala. In a statement, the bank managers Tuesday said the affected staff were receiving medical attention and counselling. As a result of the attempted robbery, they said, the bank is reviewing the security measures in place. “Several armed men ambushed our staff as they were closing up to leave the branch after work. Unfortunately, during the attack, some of our employees were physically assaulted. We are doing everything to ensure they get back to their feet as quickly as possible,” reads part of the statement. The Bwaise branch remained closed Tuesday as investigations continue. “In the meantime, customers are being served at the Makerere and Kawempe branches which are the closest in proximity,” the statement shared on their social media platforms further reads.  