Another gang rape has rocked Bomet County, the victim being a 13-year-old girl who was detained a week by 10 criminals in one of their houses. The victim went missing from her parent's home in Bomet Central on February 9. Area divisional police commander Geoffrey Walumbe said on Monday that the girl's mother reported the matter four days later. “We have arrested a 24-year-old boda-boda rider from whose house the girl was rescued. He is undergoing interrogation,” said Mr Walumbe. Dr Joseph Sitonik, the county executive in charge of medical services, said, “The patient is receiving treatment including counselling. All the necessary support she requires has been accorded." OFFICER CASE News of the gang-rape came days after a police officer was accused of defiling a school girl in Konoin Sub-county. In this case, police officers have been accused of attempting a cover-up. It is alleged that the officer prevented the victim's father from recording a statement at a local police station, volunteering instead to take them to hospital. While on their way, they were involved in an accident which left the girl with serious head injuries. “We arrested the police officer after the father recorded the statement. He will be charged once investigations are completed,” said Mr Alex Shikondi, the Konoin Sub-county police commander. FUROR Residents and leaders, led by Embomos Ward Representative Robert Serbai, claimed the police officer was being protected by his seniors in a bid to defeat justice. “It is sad, shocking and diabolical that while the girl is admitted in hospital, the officer is free as he has secured protection from his seniors who have ganged up to twist the case. We need to be told whether police officers deployed to Bomet have a brief to commit human rights abuses including raping and defiling our daughters,” said Mr Serbai. In November 2018, a seven-man gang raped a secondary school student in Bomet East and recorded an audio that ended up on social media platforms. Three of the suspects were arrested and charged with the crime. They were each released on Sh100,000 bond, with sureties of the same amount, by Bomet Senior Resident Magistrate Kipkirui Kibelion.   There is no proof that they will interfere with the probe or be in danger.