Nigerians went to the polls Saturday to elect a president in an exercise they should have concluded a week ago. The voting started relatively well inasmuch as there were several logistical challenges. But the overriding goal is to ensure majority of Nigerians exercise their democratic right and determine their destiny. Though the election features the highest number of candidates in Nigeria’s history, 73, it is considered a two-horse race between incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari and former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar. President Buhari is the flag bearer for the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC), with his main challenger running on the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) ticket. The contest is a watershed of sorts. President Buhari and Mr Abubakar are both northern Muslims of the Hausa/Fulani stock and should thus be voted for on account of their promises to Nigerians, as opposed to religious or regional considerations that have traditionally determined poll outcomes. For most Nigerians, the main concerns are easily the runaway insecurity, in the face of the Boko Haram insurgency and the inter-community clashes, and the limping economy. The humongous wealth gap and the ignominy of being ranked among the most corrupt countries globally are matters of deep concern. That the presidential election was postponed did not come as a surprise. Nigeria has done it before in 2011 and 2015. But the latest delay was a new high: it was announced only hours before the 84 million registered voters could begin casting their ballots at some 119,973 polling stations. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said that following a careful review of the implementation of its logistics and operational plan and the determination to conduct free, and credible elections, it had concluded that proceeding with the poll as earlier planned was not feasible. Nigeria is Africa’s biggest economy and the most populous state. Other countries look up to it for guidance and inspiration. Thus, it must get it right with the polls.  