Athletics Kenya’s Senior Vice-President, Paul Mutwii, has asked local athletics managers and agents to make use of the close relationship between them and the athletes to enhance better performance in training and in competitions. At the same time, Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya (Adak) has asked athletes managers to sensitise runners in their stable on the dangers of using performance-enhancing substances. Speaking on Thursday at Noble Hotel in Eldoret ahead of national cross-country championships to be held at Eldoret Sports Club on Saturday, Mutwii told athletics managers that they had a big role to play in enhancing good results from athletes. "Athletes will always trust you more than the federation and it will be good if you are to always represent them in the right manner so that we can have good results in various competitions across the globe," said Mutwii. He urged those present at the meeting, attended by more than 40 athletics managers and agents, to continue mentoring future athletics stars to guarantee good performance by Kenyan athletes in global competitions. Speakers at the meeting also decried increased cases of doping which have seen a number of Kenyan athletes being banned in the last season, tainting Kenya’s reputation. Adak’s director for research, Agnes Mandu, said doping menace would be handled better if managers played their part in educating athletes on the dangers of doping, and how to complete clean again. “This problem is brought about by ignorance on the part of athletes who buy over-the-counter drugs without caring to know whether they contain banned substances. We would like athletics managers to educate their athletes on the need to seek services from professional doctors,” said Mandu. Gianni Demadona from athletics management company Demadonna Athletics Promotion told Nation Sport stakeholders have put concerted efforts to deal with the doping menace, although a lot remains to be done. “A lot has been done by the stakeholders to fight the doping menace but more effort will help eradicate it and it takes everyone to support and practice clean sport at all times,” Demadonna, whose stable has more than 100 Kenyan athletes, said. Participants also spoke against issuance of double contracts for athletes by agents, with speakers urging managers to act professionally when signing up athletes. Mutwii noted that double contracting would create chaos at the federation. “Managers need to issue contracts to athletes who have not signed for another manager to ensure order and good relations with other managers,” said Mutwii. Mutwii said there would be slight changes to the AK calendar that would affect weekend meetings. The changes have been occasioned by adjustments on dates for the African Games which have been brought forward from October to August. Mutwii also asked mangers seeking to work in Kenya as coaches to seek clearance from Immigration Department and AK. More than 400 athletes are expected to attend an anti-doping seminar organised by AK and Adak at the same venue on Friday.  