Racing Victoria stewards concluded their hearing into show cause notices, issued against licensed trainers Darren Weir and Jarrod McLean, initiated February 1. Weir and McLean were asked why the stewards ought not to exercise their powers pending a hearing and determination of charges against them. These will be heard on a date to be fixed by the Racing Appeals and Disciplinary Board. Weir will not contest the three charges for possession of an electric or electronic apparatus capable of affecting the performance of a horse, nor for conduct prejudicial to the image, interests or welfare of racing. Weir was found guilty by the board of three charges of possessing an electric or electronic apparatus capable of affecting the performance of a horse, and one charge of conduct prejudicial to the image, interests or welfare of racing. Weir is one of Australia's top trainers. He claimed a landmark victory in the 2015 Melbourne Cup when jockey Michelle Payne became the first female jockey ever, to win the prestigious race on Prince of Penzance, at 100-1. A week ago, police seized a firearm, cocaine and, the electronic devices at Weir's stables. The devices are known as 'jiggers' and can cause horses to run faster in conjunction with a jockey using their whip. Weir will not be permitted to participate in the racing industry in any way for four years, including, but not limited to his participation in the training of horses, attending race meetings and licensed premises and deriving any benefit from the industry. McLean, however, will be contesting the same allegations. Stewards deliberated and determined the following: Darren Weir ***** They request that the RAD Board hear and determine accusations against Weir at the earliest opportunity. While the decision of penalty is ultimately that of the RAD Board, given the severity of this case, they will be seeking disqualification for a period of four years. Weir was informed that this was the stewards' position before he determined not to pursue said charges. Until such time as the hearing and determination is implemented, these immediate proposals are being imposed on Weir. • That Weir not be permitted to nominate horses for any races or official trials; • That any horses trained by Weir that have accepted to race be withdrawn by order of the stewards; • That Weir not be permitted to accept with any horses that he has nominated; • That any horse currently nominated for a race, but not accepted, must be transferred from Weir to another trainer with the approval of the stewards prior to acceptance time should the owners wish it to compete in the nominated race; and • That Weir must divest himself of any registered ownership interest in a registered horse, prior to that horse being permitted to accept for any race. Jarrod McLean ***** On the basis that McLean will protest, significant conditions have been imposed on his operation until such time as the charges have been heard and determined by the RAD Board including that McLean not be permitted to receive any horses to train that were in the care of Weir as on January 30. Subject to the condition stated above, McLean will be permitted to continue to nominate and accept horses for races and official trials. Tyson Kermond *****In light of the communications between RV stewards and legal representatives of licensed foreperson Tyson Kermond, Weir and McLean, and information provided on their behalf, stewards have determined not to continue. This is a complex matter which requires thorough proof due consideration to submissions made, their legal advice, and, the ongoing analysis.  