“When one door closes, God opens another one”. When Apostle Elkana told me those words a few weeks ago, they sounded empty and hollow. This was a day after Kuya, with the help of Bensouda, had ejected me from my office. “You will soon be blessed and in a big way,” the Apostle had added. I did not believe him. “Those are just words to comfort me Nabii,” I said. Well, I am happy to report that Elkana was right. From the look of things, God has opened another door after Bensouda closed the other one. It started two week ago when Pius, my brother, called me over an assignment he had for me. “I met some sponsors who are willing to do some projects in Mwisho wa Lami and I need someone to coordinate this at home,” he said on phone. He asked me to share with him a list of all the schools in our constituency, how many classes they had, their population and presence of such infrastructural facilities like laboratories and libraries. “The wazungus want to help these schools,” he said; asking if the list would be ready within three days. I told him that three days to walk around the area were too few, unless I was facilitated. “How much do you need?” he asked. “I will send you some money to do it.” I asked him for Sh7,000, and he immediately send me Sh11,000. PREPARATIONS I hired a former student of mine who went around the schools, and collected the information I needed. I paid him Sh4,000, meaning I remained with a cool Sh7,000. From the way he talked, I am sure Pius made even more money. Two days after I submitted the results, Pius called to say that he would be coming with some of the donors. He asked me to prepare to host two wazungus. When I told Fiolina, she was very worried and gave me a list of things we needed to buy: new beds, blankets, utensils, cutlery, and so on. Although Pius sent me some money in advance to buy a few things, he cautioned us not to do anything extra-ordinary. “They want to experience your everyday life, eat what you eat, and do the things you do,” he said. “Let everything remain as it always is.” They arrived in Mwisho wa Lami last Saturday morning via Western Coach: Pius, and the two wazungus; Smiffy Padimore and Hempstone Jones. No sooner had they arrived home than word spread in Mwisho wa Lami and beyond that I was hosting some wazungus. As such, different people visited us for the flimsiest of reasons. After breakfast, Smiffy and Hempstone slept, having travelled overnight. As they did, Pius and I worked on their plan for the next three days. First on the agenda was to form a Coordination Committee, which I would chair. “You need to have a church representative, a woman and a youth,” said Pius. I wasted no time, calling Apostle Elkana, The Revered Spiritual Superintendent of THOAG (The Holiest Of All Ghosts) Tabernacle Assembly; Nyayo; and his wife Anindo. We had our initial meeting where Pius told them their job was to be the bridge between Mwisho wa Lami and the donors. “Mimi na bibi yangu shida hatujui kingereza,” said Nyayo. Pius told them not to worry; the meetings with wazungus would be few and, in any case, the two wazungus knew some Kiswahili. Personally, and for obvious reasons, I had chosen Nyayo and his wife because they did not understand English. EXCITED We all then met the wazungus in the afternoon. Smiffy and Hempstone were quite excited to see how Apostle Elkana was dressed; and took many photos with him. “One thing we needed to know,” said Apostle Elkana as the meeting drew to a close. “You all know we left our other businesses to come here. We are volunteers who don’t expect to be paid, but surely, should we go back home empty-handed?” Smiffy and Hempstone exchanged knowing looks; after which Smiffy said they would consult and revert to us. The next day, I took them to Apostle Elkana’s THOAG (The Holiest Of All Ghosts) Tabernacle Assembly, where they enjoyed the service. After lunch, I called Nyayo who took them to Hitler’s. As a newly converted Christian, I could not step at Hitler’s, although my heart yearned for a visit! We spent Monday visiting schools; with every school keen to convince us to donate something. All of a sudden, most headmasters were calling me as they knew what influence I had, Bensouda included. That evening, as we concluded our meeting, Pius spoke. After thanking the wazungus, he looked at us and said: “I want to thank you for spending three days with us,” he said. “We may not have much to pay you but we won’t let you go home empty-handed.” He then gave each of us an envelope, which I noted were of difference colours and sizes! He gave me another to take to Fiolina for the great hospitality she had extended to them. As I walked them to the stage to take the bus that evening, Pius told me, not in English. “My brother Dre tujipange vizuri, hawa watu lazima tuwanyonye!” I can’t wait for Smiffy and Hempstone’s next visit!   He initially opposed the idea of a Valentine's kesha.