Tharaka-Nithi County Assembly Deputy Speaker Susan Ngugi has been impeached. The ouster happened despite a court order issued on Tuesday morning by the High Court in Chuka. The order had suspended discussion of the matter until on February 15. Sponsored by Majority Leader and Karingani Ward Representative Godfrey Murithi, the motion was supported by 16 out of 19 members in the assembly. Ms Ngugi said that she had served the assembly clerk with the court order but Speaker David Mbaya denied having seen the document. Ms Ngugi was accused of storming out of the chambers on December 12, 2018 as the list of assembly business committee nominees was being tabled. DIGNITY She was also accused of using un-parliamentary language contrary to her duty of ensuring the dignity of the assembly and its rights and privileges are upheld. She was also accused of leaking house business committee discussions to the public and the press. Mukothima MCA Mwenda Gataya and nominated Ward Rep Anita Karimi accused Ms Ngugi of failing to defend the interests of the county government. “The deputy speaker has been speaking ill of (the county) government that she should be protecting,” said Mr Gataya. While supporting the ouster, Mugwe Ward Rep Denis Mutwi, claimed that Ms Ngugi had accused them of receiving Sh150, 000 from Governor Muthomi Njuki to have her ousted. The claims were, however, denied by the former deputy speaker. CRITICISING EXECUTIVE Magumoni Ward Rep Justin Kithinji said it was wrong for any member to claim that the assembly was controlled by the executive. While opposing the motion, Mwimbi MCA Jonnes Kinegeni said the allegations levelled against Ms Ngugi did not warrant an impeachment. Nominated MCA Millicent Mugana claimed that the deputy speaker was targeted for criticising the executive. Addressing the press after her impeachment, Ms Ngugi, who accused the executive of spearheading her removal, insisted that she would continue to play her oversight role. “I have been impeached for condemning rampant corruption in the county government,” said Ms Ngugi. Others MCAs who supported the motion included Peterson Mwirigi (Ganga), Njeri Kigwari (Igambang’ombe), Leonard Gitonga (Nkondi), Margaret Gitari (Chogoria), Mutegi Ruujia (Gatunga), and Charles Nyaga (Mitheru) and nominated ward reps Muthini Karangi, Karen Karimi, and Asumpta Mkwanjeru.   The motion sponsored by Majority Leader Murithi accuses Ms Ngugi of gross misconduct.