President Uhuru Kenyatta has challenged the Sports, Arts and Social Development Fund oversight board to utilize resources at its disposal to restore the country’s sporting glory, promote the arts and preserve the rich national heritage. Kenyatta said this when he met the newly formed board chaired by former vice president Moody Awori at State House on Friday. Also present was Sports Ministry Principal Secretary Peter Kaberia. “We need to revive sports and the arts in the country, one way of doing that is to motivate our young people through adequate resourcing,” he said as posted on his official Facebook page. “I urged the Sports, Arts and Social Development Fund Oversight Board to be in the forefront of building strong national sporting teams through provision of adequate funding as well as through branding and provision of the necessary supplies they need to excel.” A total of 15% is taxed on Betting, Lotteries and Gaming companies and the proceeds paid into the Sports, Arts and Social Development Fund. About Sh15 billion reportedly lies at the Treasury since the act came into force January last year. The Sports ministry will have 55% under their control - with 35% meant for Sports and 20% for Heritage and Arts - while 40% will go to health care and 5% to administration. The fund is meant to finance the development of sports and recreation facilities that includes stadiums, gymnasiums, buildings and tracks as well as enhancing support and access to funding for sportspersons and sports organizations to enable their participation in sporting events and competitions. Further, it will enable facilitation for the acquisition and provision of equipment to sports and recreation facilities. National teams have previously struggled to raise funds to honour international assignments with football, volleyball and rugby the most affected federations. Harambee Stars presented a budget of Sh500 million to prepare for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) and the Olympic qualifiers for the U23 football team.  