An impeachment motion against Tharaka-Nithi County Assembly Deputy Speaker was on Wednesday tabled at the assembly. The motion sponsored by Majority Leader Godfrey Murithi, accuses Ms Susan Ngugi of gross misconduct. Ms Ngugi has been accused of storming out of the chambers on December 12, 2018 as the list of assembly business committee nominees was being tabled. She is said to have protested over the composition of the list. The deputy speaker is also accused of making allegations against a fellow MCA without substantiating and using un-parliamentary language contrary to her duty of ensuring the dignity of the assembly and its rights and privileges are not misused. Ms Ngugi is also accused of leaking a discussion of house business committee to the public and the press. RAMPANT CORRUPTION Speaker David Mbaya directed that the motion be debated on Tuesday next week. Ms Ngugi, however, dismissed the allegations and accused the executive of championing her removal due to her stand in the fight against rampant corruption in the county. She said during the two debates, she could not remember being declared out of order by the speaker. “I am surprised that an impeachment motion (against me) has emerged three months after the sittings,” Ms Ngugi told the Nation on Wednesday. She alleged that her colleagues had been compromised by the executive and could not go against Governor Muthomi Njuki. DISCRIMINATION Nominated MCA Millicent Mugana claimed that female ward reps, who were the minority in the house, were being discriminated against. She said that she had been ousted from the health committee chairmanship for no apparent reason. “There is discrimination against women in this (Tharaka-Nithi) assembly, all allegations levelled against Ms Ngugi are all false,” said Ms Mugana. Constitutionally, speaker or his deputy can be impeached on grounds of gross misconduct, abuse of office, incompetence, gross violation of laws or if he or she is proved to be of unsound mind.   12 ward reps have already appended their signatures to petition seeking to impeach him.