President Uhuru Kenyatta’s directive to the striking nurses to resume work immediately puts him on a collision path with the workers, who have vowed to stay put and continue with the boycott. Right from the outset, it should be recognised that the strike has taken a toll on health service delivery in the affected counties. And chances of it spreading and becoming unmanageable were high as more counties threatened to join in. This explains why President Kenyatta came out forcefully to end it. Provision of quality healthcare is a major responsibility of the government. Inasmuch as the function is devolved, accountability lies with the national government just as with the counties. Only the management is segmented and divided between the national and county governments, not the health and safety of citizens. RESOLUTION With the presidential directive, the nurses have been placed in a delicate position. Presidential directives are executed, not defied, as doing so incurs punitive actions. However, and in broad terms, the case of nurses is being badly handled. Ideally, this should be a labour issue that should not be escalated to the President. It had not reached an irreconcilable level. It is the responsibility of governors, the Salaries and Remuneration Commission and the Labour ministry to resolve such trade disputes without seeking executive intervention. While it behoves the nurses to get back to work, the national and county governments have to resolve issues that perpetually push these workers and, for that matter, doctors and other health workers, to go on strike. REWARD The issue at hand is the implementation of a collective bargaining agreement that gives nurses higher salaries and allowances. Debate over compensation of medical workers has widely been canvassed; it is not worth belabouring. But the critical point is that provision of quality healthcare is not attainable without a motivated workforce. Health is a delicate sector and the workers deserve proper care. The bigger question, though, is the ballooning public wage bill, which is why the SRC has been strict with salary reviews. WAGE BILL Part of the problem is the glaring inequalities where some public workers are paid inexplicably high salaries while others earn meagre pay. For example, MPs and MCAs, among others, are paid handsomely with lucrative benefits for not doing any meaningful work, while nurses, doctors, teachers and police officers are poorly paid despite the critical duties they perform. It is incumbent upon the nurses to drop the strike and resume work. But the Health ministry, the SRC and county governments must seek a long-lasting solution to this problem. It cannot be wished away just because of a presidential directive.  