Q I am currently on suspension over what I believe was a misunderstanding between me and my boss. I am awaiting the final verdict from the disciplinary committee. Recently, I received a job offer which is attractive. My question is, is it advisable to resign in the middle of a suspension?  It is a little surprising that a misunderstanding between you and your boss has found its way into the deliberations of a disciplinary committee. Unless the misunderstanding mutated into an offense for which you ought to be charged, a discussion between the two of you could, under normal circumstances, help resolve it and normalise your working relationship. It is positive that you have received an attractive job offer. Have you been in search for a new job or has the job offer come to you out of the blue? If you had been searching for another job, has it been out of discomfort with your current role or has the relationship with your boss been gradually heading south? Whatever the case, what does your gut tell you about the possible outcome of the matter before the disciplinary committee? Supposing the final verdict of the committee fell in your favour and your role remained unchanged, have you a plan concerning how to repair the relationship with your boss? Employment contracts provide for either party to terminate the relationship. While an employer may not be at liberty to terminate an employment contract without just cause, there is usually no requirement for employees to justify their resignation. It is possible to resign even when you are under suspension. Remember that unless the resignation takes effect immediately, you would still be bound by the policies of your organisation, including the disciplinary process and that, depending on the matter, your employer could legally pursue you even after resignation. It would not be prudent to let an attractive job offer pass you by, especially if your current employment lies in a precarious state. Consider that even if the disciplinary committee absolves you of culpability, their verdict cannot repair a lame working relationship between you and your boss unless both of you are willing to roll up your sleeves to make it work. The decision to resign and take up this new role is yours. Prioritise your plans for the career ahead, not your anxiety concerning the case.   Be prepared to leave work late sometimes, but not for ostentatious reasons.