Western Stima on Wednesday bounced back to winning ways when they edged visiting Zoo Kericho 1-0 in a thrilling SportPesa Premier League match held at Moi Stadium in Kisumu.Johana Mwita's second half strike was the difference in the match played in sweltering Kisumu heat. Stima's head coach Paul Ogai said he was happy for the three points, but decried wasted chances, saying they would have won the match by a bigger margin. "We had so many chances which we wasted. We must still work on our finishing to score more goals." His counterpart Sammy Okoth blamed his side's loss to wasted chances. "The game was good, both teams played well but we did not use our chances well," he said. Stima showed early intent of bagging all the three points when Johana Mwita sent a powerful drive from the centre circle forcing Zoo Kericho's keeper Martin Elungat to punch back into the field. Laban Gambareko's follow up rebound was pushed out for a fruitless corner. At the other end Danson Chetambe bent in a dangerous cross in the 9th minute from the left wing that evaded his team mates before Stima's Kevin Akong'o cleared the danger. The lively Mwita raced clear to connect with Martin Oduor's inviting cross but he was ruled offside by assistant referee's flag. Minutes later, Chetambe's whipped in a free-kick that came off Stima wall, James Ogada reacted fastest to launch a thunderous strike from the rebound that sailed inches wide. Stima failed to convert two successive fouls in the last five minutes of the first half from the corner area, before Zoo also missed the target from another foul the other end. The host suffered a blow in the 60th minute when Vincent Omumbo left the stadium in an ambulance after suffering a suspected serious thing injury. He was replaced by Samuel Olare. A minute later Mwita found the back of Zoo's net with a powerful shot from outside the box, after connecting to Vincent Likare's delivery from the left wing. His team mate Oduor was guilty for failing to make it two goals up despite remaining with Elungat as the only man to beat. The goal looked to have rejuvenated Stima as they looked more dangerous in the entire second half. Zoo survived from conceding a second goal in the 70th minute when Mwita's rasping shot from close range hit the goal post, before the ball rolled outside for a goal-kick. The win lifts Stima to fifth position on the log with 19 points same as Gor Mahia who hit Kakamega Homeboyz 1-0 in Kakamega on Wednesday.   Leopards dismal run continues.