A clinic said to have facilitated a botched abortion on human rights activist Caroline Mwatha in Dandora, Nairobi is not registered, Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board (KMPDB) has revealed. KMPDB chief executive Daniel Yumbya said government officials will visit the clinic for inspection on Wednesday. "We have checked and neither does the facility nor the names of the persons referred to in the DCI [Directive of Criminal Investigations] report appear in our record. Meanwhile, I have organised a multi-agency team to visit the clinic tomorrow in the morning to establish all the facts,” he said. Police claimed that Mwatha died from complications arising from an abortion she procured at the Dandora clinic. THE SUSPECTS After her body was found at the City Mortuary, detectives revealed they have arrested six people in connection with her death. Through a statement, DCI boss George Kinoti said the suspects were arrested over Mwatha’s alleged botched abortion and disposal of her body. The six individuals arrested include Ms Betty Akinyi Nyanya alias Betty Ramoya, Mr Richard Ramoya Abudo (Betty’s son), Mr Georgia Achieng Tabitha and Mr Michael Onchiri alias Dr Mike. Others are Mr Alexander Gitau Gikonya — who police claim was her boyfriend — and Mr Stephen Maina (an Uber driver. “The said woman was lastly seen on February 6 by her relatives. DCI officers launched investigations and it was established that Caroline was in constant communication with one Alexander Gitau Gikonyo who is known to be working in Isiolo County,” read in part the DCI statement. Mr Kinoti said there was communication relating to an intended abortion of a five-month old pregnancy between Caroline and Mr Gikonyo. The police statement further claimed that an unidentified doctor had demanded a fee of Sh7, 000 and after negotiations the cost was reduced to Sh6, 000 which was sent to Mwatha by the alleged boyfriend. Thereafter, on February 6, police said Mwatha went to the New Njiru Community Centre clinic in Dandora Phase 1 to procure the abortion. “It is believed that an abortion procedure was procured by the owner of the clinic, namely Betty Akinyi Nyanya and one purported “Dr” Michael Onchiri alias Dr Mike,” said Kinoti. Mr Kinoti said his detectives “believe” that Mwtha died at the clinic before the body was transferred to Nairobi City Mortuary on February 7 at 4.42am. “This is confirmed by records at the City Mortuary although the deceased name was captured as Carol Mbeki under tag No.1495. Records also at the mortuary indicate the body was brought by a motor vehicle registration number KBP 677B,” he said. But Mr Kinonit has urged patience as the investigation is still ongoing. “We wish to condole with the family of the deceased and assure them that justice will be done in this matter. Any person involved in any manner in this death will be brought to book,” the DCI boss said.   Police arrest doctor and owner of a clinic where she had gone for an abortion.