“I’m a water baby. I grew up in the Coast region in a small close-knit community. One of my aunts was a marine biologist. She and her husband would go to the sea many times, and it seemed like a job I wanted to do. So in February 2007, I relocated to South Africa to study for a bachelor’s degree in ecology, specialising in marine biology. “I returned home late 2009 and interned at the Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute in Coast. Our work revolved around coral reforestation and propagation. We went out to scuba dive most of the time. I loved it. “With time, I realised I was passionate and good at jobs that involved working with my hands outdoors. After the internship, I got a research job at the marine station with the Kenya Wildlife Service in Mombasa. I was pushing paper, really, and we weren’t going out to the field many times. I was 23 when I gave birth to my daughter in late 2011. I moved back to Nairobi to live with my parents. I ran a home bakery as a side-hustle. Baking was therapeutic and it made me some money to take care of a few things. However, it wasn’t what I wanted to do for a career. Thankfully, in early 2012, I got a job with an oil and gas company in Upper Hill. “I was there for just over a year but my pattern of restlessness kicked in. I’m self-managing and hyper-efficient. I like to take the shortest route to anywhere, and I don’t like wasting time on unnecessary things. QUIT HER JOB I only do things that make sense to me. I learnt this from my father, a retired engineer. I always knocked heads with one of my bosses at the oil firm, who was never open to my feedback about improving work processes. I was not happy working there. I’d leave the office at 5pm, have two beers to step down then go home. Eventually, I resigned. “It’s on the day I quit my job that I went to see a therapist. He diagnosed me with low-key post-partum depression with ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder) and mild anxiety. I’m still managing both to date. “I went back to baking so that I could hold things financially and emotionally together. Then I dabbled in managing new music artists. My job was to get them media publicity, manage their brand … I wasn’t good at it because I knew diddly about it. This stint wormed my way into radio. I’d show up at the Nation Centre every day to watch the Nation FM support crew at work. They eventually gave me my own morning show in January 2016. I hosted the show, ‘The Detox’, with XTena Dela and DJ Exclusive. It was more of a deejay mix show so I had to keep it interesting and engaging for the audience between the mix sets. “I picked up plenty in the seven months I was there. Most important was the rate cards for the ad slots, something I give mind to in my radio station. “I had all these great ideas for the station, but the management wasn’t keen to take them up. I gave up my morning show a week before the station shut down in July 2016. “Then the journey to launch my own station began. It wasn’t a walk in the park but, I had to do it out of my love for music. Now I have my own online station called Asylum Radio. We launched it in November 2017. The regular FM and AM stations are terrestrial radio stations. You need about Sh50 million to Sh80 million for infrastructure, including licences and buying frequencies. These frequencies will be phased out globally by 2022, although radio stations will convert to digital signals. “The cost of setting up an online radio stations is close to nothing, about Sh50,000. I run the station from my parents’ garage at home. “You only need microphones, cables, mixers and a digital streaming service. We use Streema. There’re no licences and censorships. You can listen to Asylum from your computer or our mobile app. “Listening to music makes people feel good. I curate our playlists based on what’s happening in society and around the world. Even a change in weather will have us change our playlists. YouTube is not our direct competitor because our music is curated, deliberate and reflective of current events. I have 10 radio presenters, their shows run from 5 to 9 pm. I’ve given them creative freedom to bring their personalities unfiltered to our listeners. They love this. We average 5,000 listeners a day. They’re mostly from Kenya, France, Germany and UK. “I’ve run the radio station for one year ads free. This means we aren’t making any money yet — it’s been a labour of love. To sustain myself, I still do voice work and mcee at gigs like ‘Cocktails and Conversations’. My plan with brands we’ll partner with this year is to design and construct ads that will run. I’m also looking to get into a subscription-based model, where we charge as little as Sh150 to listen to the station. I’m an advocate for mental health. I want Asylum to be part of a network of experiences, where people can have healthy creative outlets to get stuff off their chests, and share information.”   