Residents of Kaloleni Estate in Nairobi are reaping big from free aerobics training sessions after the reclamation of the Kaloleni handball ground, which served as a dumpsite for over 30 years. The sessions - held from 7pm to 8pm inside Kaloleni Social Hall on weekdays and between 10am and 1pm on Saturdays at Kaloleni handball ground - are now attracting between 500 and 600 people per session up from just four in 2017. Kaloleni Estate Residents Association (Kera) mobilised residents in the area and with the help of Nairobi County government reclaimed the ground in 2010. From the dumpsite, the handball court was born in 2015 through support from the Constituency Development Fund (CDF). One of the hundreds of beneficiaries is the former Makadara Member of Parliament, Reuben Ndolo. The former professional boxing official says the aerobics training sessions are “good for our health and a way to give back to younger generations”. “The young generation is not serious about health. This programme is a good way to help them stay healthy. It will also improve their discipline because it needs commitment as well as following instructions from the trainers. Through the sessions, the young make friendships. It is also a source of employment to youth,” he said adding that governors to maximise on open spaces in their counties to launch similar initiatives. “You don’t need billions or trillions (of money) to be happy, but health, peace and love.” One of the founder Silas Otieno says the programme has been a big boost in fighting drug abuse and crime in the area. “These vices have gone down,” he said and noted that the idea of free aerobics training sessions came about when friends and neighbours lost their jobs because of using drugs. “They would start borrowing money after losing jobs. One way to get them out of that situation was to come up with something noble like having free aerobics sessions to rehabilitate them. By the time they finish a session they are very tired and just want to rest,” he says. Otieno recalls that the Zoezi Mtaani programme failed at one stage after being started in 2017. “Only four people turned up when we had our first session in 2017. In fact, the training sessions died after three months because of financial difficulties, but we revived it and right now we get between 500 and 600 people per session.” Otieno revealed that Zoezi Mtaani spends Sh80, 000 every Saturday to put up the three-hour outdoor session. “We don’t pay for the venue because it’s free, but we hire the stage, music, mobilizers, tents and security. This event is not just helping people to keep fit and stay away from social evils like drug abuse and crime, but it has also created jobs.” The event, which is growing in popularity, is supported by leaders from Makadara sub-county and Accenture Aviation as well as Smart Fitness, which provides 10 trainers. There are plans to take the aerobics session around Nairobi estates to sensitize people on matters health.  