The Directorate of Criminal Investigations has summoned 107 companies that were contracted to offer various services to an Italian firm facing probe over tenders for construction of five multi-purpose dams in the country. On Monday, DCI head George Kinoti summoned the directors of the listed companies to appear in Nairobi headquarters on Kiambu Road with all the relevant documents to show how they won the tenders. Some of the required documents are invoices, quotations and delivery notes. “The under listed companies and their directors are believed to be connected with or have information which will assist in the ongoing investigations into fraudulent construction of both Arror and Kimwarer multi-purpose dams valued at Sh63 billion,” said Mr Kinoti. According to the Kerio Valley Development Authority, Arror Dam was set to cost Sh38.5 billion while Kimwarer dam in Keiyo South was to cost Sh28 billion. BRIBERY ALLEGATIONS Mr Kinoti warned the summoned directors they risk prosecution should they fail to comply with his directive. The Italian firm won tenders to build mega dams in the Rift Valley worth more than Sh90 billion and is being investigated for allegedly bribing senior government officials to secure the contracts. CMC di Ravenna is alleged to have paid a bribe of an unknown amount from a Sh4.9 billion down payment it received last year for the design of Arror multi-purpose dam in Elgeyo Marakwet County. The ambitious project is meant to serve more than 50,000 people living in the vast county by producing electricity and water for irrigation. SUMMONED FIRMS Some of the companies which have been summon by the DCI to shed light on the tender include: Com Twenty limited, School Depot Kenya Limited, Mwamba Simba General Merchants, Kenitainer (Kenya) Limited, Longrock Limited and Conart limited. Others include: Compuer Innovations Limited, Innovative Computers Limited, Seven Degrees North Limited, Anchored Investments, Travel Group Limited, Santab Electrical and Hardware Supplies, Thermoteq Limited, Prefab Houses Limited and Jupiter Real Limited.   CMC di Ravenna, which was awarded several dam tenders, insists it will complete Itare Dam on time.