I want to support the like-minded people who are pooling resources to save our beloved AFC Leopards in efforts to make the club a better place for players, technical bench, fans and officials. It is also imperative that our club members and fans support and welcome the recently appointed ‘AFC Leopards Rescue Team’ with open arms. The conditions in our team’s camp needed remedy; our players required help hence prompting serious Ingwe followers to start working on the ground to salvage the situation. Indeed, we needed an urgent intervention from all corners to save Ingwe from Dan Mule’s poor leadership full of brokers who are mainly interested in dirty deals. Whoever came up with the initiative of forming a rescue team to save Leopards will remembered for, at least attempting to cover any shame Ingwe was exposed to. This was a well-thought out idea! To enable the Maurice Amahwa team restore the club’s dwindling fortunes and reclaim our lost glory, I call upon former club officials, current office bearers, Ingwe legends, fans and members to join hands. Let us allow the Rescue Team and even those who are working behind the scenes do whatever they can to revive our ailing club. The committee alone cannot end our crisis but by coming together as one, we can make a difference in helping save lives and ease the suffering of our players. We sit smack in the relegation zone after a string of poor performances. But I know with the goal of uniting Ingwe followers under one banner, there is hope and we can achieve more than we could individually. The rescue team which has started working must be aware that we will start gauging their efforts based on yesterday’s match against Ulinzi Stars in Machakos, as we prepare to play four more league matches to complete our first leg assignments. We know we have to keep pushing forward, remain focused and humble, to strengthen our efforts even more and keep improving our standards. We thank them for employing a raft of emergency measures since they took over the team a week ago. Key among them was reverting the players winning allowances to Sh7, 000 for home and Sh8, 000 for away wins. The players had complained after the amount was abruptly trimmed from Sh7, 000 to Sh3, 000 without notice. Amahwa’s team has also installed a former Kenyan international striker Boniface Ambani as the team’s assistant coach replacing Tom Juma who takes over the team manger’s job. We also thank the Cabinet Secretary of Sports and Culture, Rashid Echesa who discussed the problems bedevilling the club before committing to pay players’ winning bonuses arrears amounting to Sh7.7m. I want to remind CS to push the Sports Kenya to allow Ingwe use of MISC Kasarani as we wait for the completion of Nyayo National Stadium currently undergoing renovation. I believe having our matches at the facility will bring back our fans who have complained that Machakos is far. jashihundu@ke.nationmedia.com  