Ms Mary Wambui suffered an extremely painful death. And whoever killed her must have been seething with rage. What was supposed to be a relaxed afternoon treat with friends turned gory and tragic. She was hit multiple times on the head and when the assailants discovered she was not dead, they suffocated her. A post-mortem examination on the 39-year-old mother of two shows the killers hit her nine times, inflicting serious injuries that contributed to her death. This comes as the family held a meeting in Nairobi to decide whether her remains should be interred in Mweiga, Nyeri, where she was married, or Nakuru, her birthplace. The Saturday Nation gathered that a majority of the members favoured Mweiga, informed by the need to ensure the children are not disinherited. Ms Wambui, who police suspect was murdered in a love triangle, was last seen alive on January 26 at Homeland Inn, where she had a meal with two men and Ms Judy Wangui Mungai, 36, who is in police custody over the matter. The post-mortem report, released seven days after her body was found at a dam in Mugutha, Juja, further revealed that she had a deep cut in one side of her forehead, an injury believed to have been inflicted by the back of a gun. According to the report, the gun is the same weapon that was also used to hit her head, leading to the injuries that were still visible when her body was discovered at the dam. The post-mortem was conducted at the Kenyatta University funeral home on Tuesday this week by government pathologist Dr Peter Ndegwa in the presence of a team of investigators, led by Mr Cornelius Arwasa, and relatives of the deceased. DETECTIVES Dr Ndegwa declined to speak to the media, citing confidentiality for the family that was mourning the death of a mother whom they have so far eulogised as “good hearted and understanding”. Juja police boss Simon Thirikwa said investigations into the killing were still underway. “For now, all I can tell you is the investigating teams from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations are working round the clock to ensure they complete the investigations,” said Mr Thirikwa. By Friday evening homicide detectives, led by Mr Araswa, were trying to piece together information to uncover the motive for the crime. It has also emerged Joseph Kori Karue, Ms Wambui’s husband, who is in police custody, was a licensed gun owner and detectives are trying to establish whether it was his weapon that was used to end the life of Ms Wambui. The detectives were reading fingerprint details captured on Ms Wambui’s car that was on Thursday found abandoned at Kwa Maiko trading centre in Githunguri, Kiambu County. The car is currently held at Ngewa Police Station and is believed to have been used to ferry the body from where she was murdered to the dam where her body was discovered. A source privy to the investigations yesterday told the Saturday Nation that Ms Wangui and Mr Kori will be taken to various scenes of the crime where they will be asked to provide information in relation to the gruesome murder. Our source, who spoke in confidence, also said police have crucial leads that will help them get hold of the two men who were last seen with Ms Wambui at Homeland Inn and were captured by CCTV cameras. BLOOD-STAINED “We are certain that from the information we have so far gathered the two men in question were directly involved in the murder,” said the source. The two suspects will remain in police custody until February 19, when they will return to court. They were arrested after police discovered blood-stained clothes in Ms Wangui’s house located at Fourways estate on Kiambu Road. It is yet to be established whether a video Ms Wambui released early last month bidding her friends goodbye was in any way related to her death. In the video that was captured live on Facebook, Ms Wambui, who was driving on Thika Road, asked her friends to stick to God no matter the challenges they were undergoing. Ms Esther Kamangara, a sister of Ms Wambui, yesterday said that the family was hoping to get justice. “It is clear that my sister was murdered and all we want is the police to act swiftly and help us get justice,” she said.   The murder raises concern about the increasing cases of family killings, especially where multiple partners are involved.