The wrangles in the Kisumu County Assembly escalated on Thursday after Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o and the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) waded into the matter, isolating Speaker Onyango Oloo. Kisumu County ODM coordinating committee led by their chairman Prof Ayiecho Olweny said the party does not support the recent changes made in the assembly. Prof Olweny was referring to the removal of Kolwa East MCA Stephen Owiti as the Budget Committee chairman in a chaotic and controversial afternoon session that saw him replaced by Central Kisumu MCA Judith Ogaga. The ward representatives opposed to the swearing-in of Mrs Ogaga exchanged blows as two factions battled in a session that saw a member attempt to run with the mace outside the assembly before he was stopped by the sergeant-at-arms. PARTY SPIRIT The ODM official said that the move goes against the spirit of the meeting the party leader Raila Odinga had with the assembly barely four months ago where they were told to resolve issues amicably. But these directives or views seem to fall on deaf ears as 26 members allied to ODM have since signed a petition seeking to oust the Majority Leader Kenneth Onyango and the Chief Whip Gard Olima. Mrs Ogaga who is also in the selection committee promised a major shake-up of the teams that will see re-organisation of membership. At a press conference within the assembly, the ward representatives said they will approach the party to dismiss the two leaders should they continue to divide members. 'WORST ASSEMBLY' “The speaker has also been giving the majority leader leeway whenever he makes noise and pitting the members against each other. This has to stop,” said Mr Roy Samo, MCA for Kajulu Ward. Kaloleni/Shaurimoyo ward representative Prisca Misachi, who also served in the first assembly, warned her colleagues against the wrangles saying it stifled the activities and business of the past House. “This second assembly is worse than the first assembly. We learnt our lessons, even those who felt were powerful never made it back to the assembly. If we do not change nothing will be achieved in the term we will be here,” said Mrs Misachi. The party’s move was supported by Governor Nyong’o who said that the assembly should heed the party to ensure smooth running of the county government. “Assembly must also respect the position of the party that there should be no destabilisation of the assembly leadership as constituted. Above all, proper procedure and law must always be followed in legislative matters,” said Mr Nyong’o.   The 44 members led by majority leader Ken Onyango accused Mr Oloo of failing to unite the assembly.