A single mother whose son Dennis Ngaruiya cracked President Uhuru Kenyatta’s ribs with a thrilling poem four years ago, has rejected a house which was built on orders of the President to appreciate her son. Ms Damaris Wambui Kamau said the house was not what the President Kenyatta had in mind when he ordered a State House official, a Mr Wanjohi to ensure the family had a decent home. “This is a big joke. Look at this house. It has cracks on the outside and looks like a semi-permanent house while President Kenyatta in his wisdom meant well for us as a family,” said Ms Kamau. FURNISHED She added: “Why is that officer at State House playing tricks on me and my son. One day President Uhuru Kenyatta will know these tricks.” However, State House Spokesperson and Head of Presidential Strategic Communication Unit (PSCU) Kanze Dena insisted that the house was well-furnished. “From the information I am gathering, the house was built and it is furnished but the lady claims the house was made of waste papers. I don’t understand what she meant by that,” said Ms Dena. She added: “What was agreed upon when the family met the President at State House has been delivered. What is missing is cutlery and mattresses which will be procured.” Ms Dena said that the land was procured next to one belonging to a Mr Mike Getone who works at State House. “Why this family is not living in the house is what I don’t understand. It is only Ms Kamau who can explain to us why she is not occupying the house,” said Ms Dena. The Nation team visited the house at Murunyu area in Bahati Constituency, Nakuru County, it was overgrown with bushes, though it was connected with power and water. Dennis’ journey to stardom started when he met President Kenyatta in October 2014 during the Kenya Defence Forces day celebrations at 3KR Barracks in Lanet, Nakuru. 'SHODDY WORK' During the colourful ceremony, Dennis recited a poem, “Our Father” that left President Kenyatta in stitches. Ms Kamau claimed that she had identified another plot in the area in a relatively good location but it was rejected by State House officials. She claimed that the house she was offered had been previously occupied and was not therefore new. “When they bought this plot they did not involve me. They bought it and called me to occupy the house but I rejected it,” said Ms Kamau at the site. Ms Kamau lives in a rented mud house in Lanet area some four kilometres away from the house she rejected. She claimed that the house was not the kind of befitting gift President Kenyatta had in mind for her son. “Mr President wanted to leave a memorable mark in the life of my son and I don’t think he meant such a shoddy work,” said Ms Kamau. Speaking separately, Mr Getone admitted that he is a neighbour and knew about the project from its initial stages. “The plan of the County Commissioner Joshua Nkanatha before he was transferred from Nakuru to Kajiado was to hand over the house to Dennis’ mother officially,” said Mr Gitone. He said Ms Kamau wanted to be given the money to purchase the land. SCHOOL FEES Mr Getone said he identified the plot with former Nakuru Governor Kinuthia Mbugua and purchased the plot at Sh650,000 and a two bedroom house was constructed with an external toilet. Dennis’ journey to stardom started when he met President Kenyatta in October 2014 during the Kenya Defence Forces day celebrations at 3KR Barracks in Lanet, Nakuru. During the colourful ceremony, Dennis recited a poem, “Our Father” that left President Kenyatta in stitches. “Though there have been small setbacks in your path, you never cease to build Kenya bwana, ama namna gani? read part of the poem. The poem also commended the First Lady Margaret Kenyatta for her continuous efforts in promoting good maternal healthcare through her Beyond Zero campaign and the President for his ability to interact freely with the people. The poem also extolled the president’s simplicity especially when addressing the citizens with his popular phrase, “Ama niaje ndugu zangu?” Dennis would later be invited to meet the President at State House during Mashujaa Day in 2015. During the meeting Mr Kenyatta directed a State House official, a Mr Wanjohi to ensure Dennis’ school fees is fully paid for four years including his university fees if he qualifies.   Despite his short stature, Dennis Ngaruiya's confidence got him the attention of President Uhuru Kenyatta.