The anticipation for a newborn baby turned to mourning after a 25-year-old pregnant woman was hit and killed by a lorry driver who was allegedly fleeing from the police. Ms Eunice Maguke, whom family members said was six-months’ pregnant, met her gruesome death at her roadside kiosk on Kabachi in Nakuru town where she was busy arranging her groceries. The mother of one died on the spot following the Monday afternoon incident. “I saw a lorry speeding towards our kiosks and within seconds, screams filled the air and the next minute, I saw Maguke’s body. The driver of the lorry tried escaping but boda boda riders intercepted him and beat him up. He was rushed to a local hospital,” said Ms Gladys Nekesa, who owns an adjacent kiosk. U-TURN Several other witnesses told Nation they saw a police vehicle giving chase to the lorry that was ferrying sand before the driver crashed into the kiosks. “I saw the police vehicle make a U-turn after they realised the lorry had been involved in an accident. It is not clear where the lorry was heading to with the construction material,” said a resident who sought not to be identified. Eyewitnesses said it took police officers about half an hour to collect the woman’s body from the scene to the Nakuru War Memorial Hospital mortuary. Residents said it was puzzling why the officers took that long yet the Nakuru Central Police Station is only a few kilometres from the scene of the accident. POLICE REPORT When reached for comment, Nakuru OCPD Samuel Obara said he was not at the station and directed the press to speak to his deputy Mr Daniel Kitavi. Just like his boss, Mr Kitavi toll the media to call his boss. The Nakuru County Police Commander Stephen Matu also said was away from the station attending a seminar. Police are yet to give details on the incident, including whether they are going to charge the offending driver and why their colleagues were pursuing the lorry. The deceased’s family through her husband is now demanding justice for their kin, saying she innocently met death while at work. “We want justice for our kin because the vehicle was fleeing a police dragnet before it caused the accident,” said Mr Walter Oginga, the victim’s husband. Residents have also called on the county government to erect bumps in the area.  