Gor Mahia missed the chance to go top of the SportPesa Premier League table after they were held to a 1-1 draw by Western Stima at the Kasarani Stadium on Wednesday. Eernest Wendo had fired the champions ahead in the 30th minute with a first time strike off a Dennis Oliech assist, but the visitors hit back in the second half with Vincent Odongo restoring parity at the hour mark with a long range shot. In between, Gor's Nicholas Kipkirui, Olirch and Jacques Tuyisenge missed a host of chances and the visitors held on. K'Ogalo are now in second spot with26 points from 13 matches, two behind leaders Bandari. Gor coach Hassan Oktay was disappointed with the two dropped points. "It wasn't our best game. The referee stopped the game for nine minutes and their goalkeeper was on the ground for eight minutes. We dropped two points We conceded a goal from 40 yards, we have a goalkeeping problem," he said. But his opposite number Paul Ogai hit back, claiming his side were by far the better team in this game, and that the Kenyan champions were lucky to have picked a point. "He (Oktay) is lucky to get a point and should just keep quiet, we lost two great chances to kill the game, we were the better side." After an early period of dominance by the hosts, Ernest Wendo stabbed home a Dennis Oliech's pass to hand Oktay's charges the lead in this game after 30 minutes. But when the Green Army - and their excited fans at the venue - seemed to be cruising, Stima rallied back and scored the goal of the game via Vincent Odongo. He rifled home a shot from 35-yards, easily beating an embarrassed Gor custodian Fredrick Onyango at his near post in the process. Onyango was standing in for the off-colour Boniface Oluoch. Jacques Tuyisenge, who seemed to be playing with some bit of discomfort, headed a Philemon Otieno cross over the opponent's bar with only custodian Samwel Onyango to beat earlier on. Then Dennis Oliech scuffed a shot which went narrowly wide moments later. And in the second half, super sub-Nicholas Kipkurui failed to find the back of the with a looping shot with Fredrick Onyango well beaten. Oktay though elected to comment on the several stoppages caused by supposed injuries to the Western Stima goalkeeper. "He (Oktay) is lucky to get a point and should just keep quiet, we lost two great chances to kill the game, we were the better side."   K'Ogalo fail to ascend to the league summit.