The most human and heart-warming story I read recently came out of Colombia. A country that had experienced war for more than 50 years showed that the dead equally deserved dignity by adopting the lonely, nameless people. They baptised them, gave them dignified burials and marked their graves with the newly acquired names. Tending the graves of the ‘abandoned souls’, or ning’un nombre (NNs), then becomes a lifelong journey. People compete to adopt the NNs in Colombia. They become sons, daughters, fathers and mothers again. There were many reasons given for the ritual but one stood out for me: The adoptees of the nameless ‘abandoned souls’ hoped their loved ones would also find the same love and care should they die away from home. This is a thinking borne of years of war, when relatives just disappeared. DEATHS The recent mishap at City Mortuary involving the handling of remains of Ms Caroline Mwatha raises serious issues about how we process bodies. Before her was Ms Susan Njoki, who went missing late last year and the family found out only recently that her body was in a Nairobi mortuary. Conflicting reports indicate that she may have been lying in the mortuary all this time. The post-mortem examination showed Ms Njoki sustained injuries, suggesting that she may have been a victim of a hit-and-run incident. But there are many odd theories about the case. I would not be surprised if there are many unclaimed bodies from accidents and murder lying on the cold slabs of mortuaries awaiting disposal in unmarked graves — without dignity. Given glaring indignity towards the dead, there is a need to review how bodies brought into our mortuaries are processed. IDENTITY The most important thing is to find a way to more quickly identify unaccompanied bodies. Efforts must then be made to inform the bereaved family as soon as possible. This is both a legal and moral duty of those who work in the field. If there is no way of identifying the body, it should be incumbent on the Ministry of Health to set up a system to inform members of the public of the presence of such a body so that those with missing relatives have an opportunity to find them quicker and dignify them accordingly. It is heartbreaking for relatives to wait for eternity for loved ones to return when, in fact, they are rotting in mortuaries. It might also be important, for humanitarian reasons, to help poor families to meet burial costs. This would equally help in decongesting the mortuaries. Ms Mwatha’s death also highlighted serious abuse of the system. COVER-UP If, indeed, she died of a botched abortion and her body taken to the mortuary, as the police claim, why were efforts not made to inform the family in time? Her disappearance was in the public domain and it should not have taken long to know that her body lay at the mortuary unidentified. The case also showed how mismanagement of bodies can be used to exacerbate extrajudicial killings by helping in hiding of bodies in mortuaries. How many women who died of botched abortions in backstreet clinics lay in our mortuaries then? Claims of cover-up are hard to tell at this point; whether it was the clinicians or the police doing it. However, the mess at our mortuaries has created the platform for cover-up, so it is an obvious possibility. Had there been a robust system in place, it would have been easier to find out exactly what transpired. As it is, the whole process has left grey areas that pose serious questions with no answers in sight. TRAINING The cavalier way in which we manage healthcare has a knock-on effect on many other facets of our lives. It is not uncommon in public hospitals for patients to be treated with indignity, and that is easily transferred to the dead. Public mortuaries are there to offer dignity to poor dead before they are interred. Private mortuaries are, disturbingly, mushrooming on the back of glaring mismanagement of public facilities, driving the poor further into financial hardship as they pursue dignity for their departed loved ones. Besides, it is time to professionalise the work of mortuary attendants by equipping them with the correct skills on handling the dead with dignity and respect. DIGNITY Most mortuary workers are unskilled, uneducated and underpaid and forced to work without proper facilities to preserve the dead. Just recently, the media reported on two mortuaries in the country where bodies piled on bare floors were rotting away. Dignity should be the by-word for care of all patients and also the dead. It is savagery to create classes among the dead. On the contrary, it is a mark of civility to dignify the dead, whatever their station in society. May the deaths of Ms Mwatha and Ms Njoki instil compassion in us. Ms Guyo is a legal researcher. kdiguyo@gmail.com @kdiguyo  