Tana River Speaker Justin Nkaduda has asked the executive to account for the Sh7.3 billion budget approved by the House. Speaking during the National Treasury and Planning meeting on Tuesday, Mr Nkaduda said the administration had taken residents for a ride. The Speaker said Governor Dhadho Godhana and his team have instead developed the slogan - "Reba Nguzi", meaning 'wait a little', that he blamed for the county's placement among the bottom three in terms of contribution to Kenya's gross domestic product. "We did our part as the assembly. We passed the Sh7.3 billion budget but the executive keeps lying to residents that we are the ones dragging efforts towards development," he said. 'NO PRIDE' Mr Nkaduda further accused the executive of pointing the finger at the assembly when it comes to approval of bills. He claimed the administration always tables bills late in the assembly to bulldoze the house into flout standing orders in their favour. For close to a year, Mr Nkaduda added, the administration blamed the assembly for its woes and took advantage of the fact that residents were not well-informed. "The public has been made to believe the assembly is the problem - that we are the reason why the governor cannot implement development projects. [But] we have approved the budget since last year. We are nearing the end of another financial year with nothing to take pride in," he said. 'LIP SERVICE' Mr Nkaduda called on the executive to stop the "lip service' and instead implement the Annual Development Plan. He dared the administration to make all audit reports public in the spirit of transparency. The Speaker's remarks came barely a week after reports from the Auditor-General placed Tana River among counties that contribute the least to the GDP. Mr Godhana's had contributed a meagre 0.5 percent. The report caused an uproar among leaders, some of whom accused the governor of being too slow on matters development.   Godhana says his administration has been forced to support students through an emergency fund.