Zdravko Logarusic has dispelled rumours that he is set to take over from Hassan Oktay as the new Gor Mahia coach. Reports indicate that Oktay is being courted by Egyptian giants Zamalek and Petro Atletico from Angola after Gor’s fine run in the Caf Confederation Cup that has seen them top Group D after three matches. Logarusic, who insists he is in the country for “personal and business reasons”, was spotted last week with renowned football agent George Bwana at a Nairobi hotel in a photo that went viral on social media Interestingly, Bwana was Gor Mahia’s Secretary General during the Croatian’s stint at the club in 2012. “Very few people knew I was in Kenya. Actually, I just bumped into George and we had a long meeting just to catch up and talk about the past, present and the future,” Logarusic told Nation Sport. “I had an opportunity for a short holiday and I decided to come to Kenya because it’s closer to Sudan. The temperature here is better than in Sudan where it gets very hot and also the food here is nice. Next time I’m free, I’ll probably go to Tanzania since I also liked the country when I was coaching Simba,” said the 2012 Kenyan Premier League coach of the year.   Logarusic - who now manages the Sudan national team – has however not ruled out coaching in Kenya either at club or national team level in future. “I am currently contracted by Sudan and I respect that. I’m enjoying my job there since it’s a new challenge for me being in charge of a national team,” offered Logarusic, who finished third in the 2018 Africa Nations Championships (CHAN) in his first major assignment with Sudan.   “I also enjoyed my time here in Kenya and posted good results. If an opportunity arises in future and I’m free, then why not? Kenyan football has improved a lot since I left. As I always say, Kenya is a sleeping giant in African football,” he added. Logarusic is remembered for winning a double (domestic cup and Top 8 ) with Gor Mahia in 2012. He narrowly missed out on a treble after the infamous 1-1 draw with Thika United on the final day handed Tusker the league title.  