Athletics Kenya will this afternoon hold the National Cross County Championships at Eldoret Sports Club in Uasin Gishu County to select a team that will represent Kenya in the World Cross Country Championships planned for March 30 in Aarhus, Denmark. About 500 athletes will battle it out for 28 national team slots. This is the first time the National Cross County Championships are being held outside Nairobi, and the choice of Eldoret strategic being home to Kenya’s world-beating stars. However, it is not the first time major athletics event is being hosted outside Nairobi. In 2007, Mombasa successfully hosted the World Cross Country Championships and in 2016, Kipchoge Keino Stadium in Eldoret hosted the Kenyan trials ahead of the 2016 Olympic Games staged in Rio de Janeiro. HUGE CROWDS Athletics Kenya should draw lessons on handling huge crowds from their experience of hosting Kenyan trials in 2016 Olympic Games given that the one-day championship is expected to attract large crowds. While counties are encouraged to bid to host these major athletics events, it’s the high standards set at the competition that will encourage Athletics Kenya to confidently hold competitions outside the city. Stiff competition is expected in Eldoret, what with most of the country’s leading track and road racing athletes expected to participate. The first four athletes across the line in each of the four races on the cards will gain automatic places in Team Kenya, with Athletics Kenya handing out two wild cards in each category. FAIRNESS Athletics Kenya should exercise fairness in team selection and ensure only those who merit places are selected. The senior women’s team has dominated the World Cross Country Championships, winning the past six editions of the event. The senior men’s team has also done well, winning the past three editions. Therefore, Team Kenya will be under pressure to maintain the good performance in Denmark, and this is only possible with a good team selected through meritocracy. Kenya last won the junior men’s title in 2011 and junior female title at the global level in 2013. This is time to get to pick the best and prime Kenya for success. May the best win.  