Team Kenya athletes converge on Athletics Kenya headquarters in Nairobi, with coaches keen to craft a winning strategy for the World Cross Country Championships to be held in Aarhus, Denmark, on March 30. The squad of 28 athletes and 10 officials is expected to report to camp for residential training at Kigari Teachers Training College in Embu on March 1. The team will fly out for the World Cross Country Championships on March 27. Team Manager Benjamin Njoga on Sunday told Nation Sport that the team selected on Saturday after the Nations Cross Country Championships in Eldoret is capable of producing good results in Denmark with good preparations. “We have set the ball rolling. We are focussing on preparations, and we are now arranging for the team and officials to get travel documents because we have few days to go before the championship,” said Njoga. He also said that the four coaches selected to manage the team will focus on training the athletes on endurance as they seek to retain the title Kenya won in Kampala in the 2017 World Cross Country Championships. Senior men’s 10km team is led by the Keringet-based athlete Amos Kirui who was the surprise winner on Saturday. On Saturday, National Police Service team retained the mixed relay title, clocking 24 minutes, 36.5 seconds to win. Kenya Defence Forces team clocked 24:54.2 to finish second, followed by North Rift region (24:56.3). The National Police Service team comprised of Winfred Mbithi, Robert Biwott, Elijah Manangoi and Emily Cherotich. State support Speaking on Saturday after the National Cross Country Championships at Eldoret Sports Club, Deputy President William Ruto reiterated the government’s commitment to supporting sports, noting that the activity brings honour and pride to Kenya. Ruto, who was the chief guest, lauded the disciplined forces for supporting local sporting talents. “The support and facilities that the disciplined forces are giving to our sportsmen and women is commendable, and we shall continue supporting them as government,” he said. Ruto also said the government would set aside 100 slots for athletes during the next national Kenya Police and Kenya Defence Forces recruitment exercises. Also present were governors Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu), Josphat Nanok (Turkana), Stephen Sang (Nandi), Patrick Khaemba (Trans Nzoia), Stanley Kiptis (Baringo)a nd Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet).  