Vitiligo is a medical condition in which the skin has too little of the pigment melanin. It’s different from albinism as the loss of skin colour occurs in patches, not on the entire body. Albinism is inherited but vitiligo afflicts people born with normal skin colour who, over time, and usually in their 20s, lose some of the pigmentation as the cells that produce melanin die. Vitiligo has no cure but treatment can stop or slow the discolouration. The main drawback is that the affected people may suffer social stigma or psychological distress. They often need to embrace their unique condition and cultivate a positive image of themselves. Why am I telling you all this? HEADLINE On November 12, 2018, the Daily Nation published a lengthy article on vitiligo, focusing on two persons, both aged 29, who had to learn how to live with the condition. One of them recounts how people called her names such as “madoadoa” and “Mzungu nusu”. The article was carried as the DN2 magazine cover story. The headline, “VITILIGO!”, was emblazoned across the page under a picture of the two vitiligo-afflicted persons. Wanjohi Mwangi wrote to complain about the headline. “I don’t understand why you include the exclamation mark in the headline,” he protests. “It creates the impression that the disease, and maybe those affected, is something to be feared, like leprosy. That can lead to stigmatisation.” EXCLAMATION MARK Mr Mwangi then poses the million-dollar question: “Couldn’t the headline have worked just fine without the exclamation mark?” An exclamation mark is used mainly to express excitement, enthusiasm, surprise, astonishment. It’s also used to add emphasis, or express pain, fear, anger and disgust. In addition, it can be used to express a sneer, irony or incredulity at somebody else’s statement — for instance, Deputy President William Ruto’s rejoinder to BBC HARDtalk interviewer Stephen Sackur: “You should have done some research before you came!” There are those who argue that exclamation marks should not be used at all unless they are part of a quotation. If a journalist needs to scream, emphasise or express any feelings, he should choose the right words and grammar that reflect or convey those feelings, not an exclamation mark. USAGE The Nation rarely uses exclamation marks in headlines. Since the beginning of the year, I have counted only three — one each for a sports story, commentary and humour article. I’ve not seen it used in headlines for news stories. The Nation is far more restrained than many other newspapers. When Osama bin Laden, the founder of al-Qaeda, was killed by United States special forces in his hideout in Pakistan on May 5, 2011, American newspapers had a field day with the exclamation mark. The New York Daily News headline was “Rot in Hell!”, Edmonton Sun said “Burn in Hell!” and Philadelphia Daily News screamed, “We Got the Bastard!” In journalism, exclamation marks are referred to as “astonishers”, “gaspers” and “screamers”. Major journalism stylebooks recommend that they be used sparingly — like when something big happens. SUITABILITY When Tom Mboya was assassinated on July 5, 1969, an exclamation mark would presumably have been acceptable in the headline “TOM MBOYA SHOT DEAD!” Still, the Nation didn’t use it. Back to Mr Mwangi’s million-dollar question: Would an exclamation mark have made the Tom Mboya headline more meaningful or effective? The AP Stylebook, a major reference for many papers, advises against overuse of the exclamation mark. It says they should be used “to express a high degree of surprise, incredulity or other strong emotion”. The Nation Stylebook takes a similar stand. “The best advice to journalists,” the stylebook says, “is not to scream too often”. Or, I might add, not to scream at all in a headline for a serious story — such as that of persons afflicted with vitiligo. Send your complaints to publiceditor@ke.nationmedia.com. Call or text 0721 989 264  