You dream of being successful. But how good are you at making things happen? Taking decisions, making plans, creating budgets, raising money and so on … Because that’s where most people fail. What sets achievers apart from the rest of us is that they know how to make things happen. They’re also very hard workers. And know how to put their effort where it really counts. Which often boils down to doing things in the right order. People often appear terribly busy. Always rushing around, and yet achieving very little. That’s because they’re disorganised. Successful people, on the other hand, know what needs to be done first. They’re fast and focused. They get up early, take good decisions and get stuff done. While most of us are still dreaming our dreams, achievers are already on the road. And have you ever missed an opportunity because you were too busy getting ready? We’re forever being told that preparation is everything. But passion and vigorous action are often better. Sometimes you just have to close your eyes and jump in with both feet. Maybe you really are passionate, full of energy and prepared to work hard. But you still find it difficult to get started … That might be because you’re letting something stand in your way. Like finding the money for college. But I once met a grown-up street person who, single-handed, had earned his own school fees! So never ever say “it’s not possible”. DREAMS AND HABITS Or maybe you do have everything you need to start, and still nothing happens. What else could be wrong? Well, we only change things that are really important to us. Like all those people who only change an unhealthy lifestyle after their first heart attack. Whether it’s quitting smoking or finding a girlfriend, when something is absolutely essential, we find a way to do it. So maybe your dream isn’t really that important to you? A nice idea, but not necessary. And so you get distracted and put it off. Or maybe your everyday habits lead you astray. Is that you? Try this. List all the things you do in a normal week. Everything. Including answering emails, playing football and going shopping. Now make a second list. Of all the things you want to do. It’ll be much shorter, with maybe a few big items like starting a business, and some smaller things like reading to your children. Now, take the list of things you actually do every week and start crossing stuff out. I know they all seem essential, but they’re not. Lots of them you shouldn’t do at all. To get the life you want, you must stop doing a few hours of routine stuff every week. Now you have time for the things you want to do! But life is short, so whatever your dream is, get started. Take the first steps now! And soon you’ll find you really are on the way towards achieving your dream.  nyumbayangu@me.com   Resist the idea of restoring your relationship to ‘like it used to be’.