An Albanian tourist has been arrested following a fight with a businessman in Narok town. The foreigner, who has been identified as Mr Amarildo Korti is set to be arraigned on Monday for assault and resisting arrest, according to Narok OCPD Joseph Kisombe. But the man's partner Ms Danielle Olivier, who is a New Zealander, and Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina, have accused the police of taking sides. “The police seem to fear Mr Muneer Ishmael, why haven’t they arrested him after equally injuring the tourist,” said Mr Kina. EXCHANGED BLOWS Ms Olivier blamed the trader for starting the fight. She said Mr Ishmael, a petrol station owner, roughed her up as she withdrew money from at a Co-operative Bank Automated Teller Machine “We were on our way to Nairobi from Maasai Mara Game Reserve when we stopped to fuel our car and fix some mechanical problems,” said Ms Olivier at Narok Police Station on Friday. “While I was at the (Co-operative Bank) ATM, the man (Mr Ishmael) started pushing and slapping me on the face as he demanded to know why I had parked the car at the wrong place,” she said.   “Since I was scared, I immediately left the ATM and rushed to our car and told my partner what had happened,” she said. She said her partner alighted from the vehicle and demanded to know why Mr Ishmael had assaulted her before the two started to exchange blows. POLICE ACCOUNT The OCPD said after the Friday incident, the two, who were driving a top of the range vehicle, fled towards Mai Mahiu after assaulting Mr Ishmael. Mr Kisombe said Mr Ishmael suffered serious injuries on the face. “An argument arose after the tourists parked their car at the entrance of the petrol station. The standoff degenerated into a fight where Mr Ishmael suffered injuries on the face,” said Mr Kisombe. The OCPD said Mr Ishmael reported the attack to Narok Police Station and officers manning roadblocks were alerted. The fleeing duo were seized at a roadblock in Ntulele trading centre, as they drove to Nairobi. MILITARY ARSENAL Mr Ishmael hit the headlines in 2009 after police discovered illegal military arsenal in his house. The arsenal, the largest ever consignment of weapons found in civilian hands in Kenyan history, included 100,000 bullets and six guns. An assortment of military supplies was also seized from the businessman’s house in Narok. Editor's Note An earlier version of this story referred to Mr Amarildo Korti as an American. However, court documents have revealed the suspect is an Albanian.   The hearing of an arms cache case against Narok businessman Muneer Ismael starts on Thursday