Two Iranians convicted of terrorism-related crimes are at the centre of a court battle in which police are seeking to detain three people who allegedly plotted to help the duo leave the country illegally. In an application filed Monday, the Anti-Terror Police Unit wants to detain Mr Wesley Kiptanui Kipkemoi, Mr Shemgrant Agyei and Mr Robin Bundi Nyangaresi for 30 days. The trio were allegedly involved in a plot to illegally release Ahmad Abolfathi Mohammed and Sayed Mansour Mousavi from police custody. EXPLOSIVES The Iranians are being held pending the determination of a case in which the Supreme Court will determine whether they should be freed. Mohammed and Mousavi were arrested seven years ago after being linked to a 15kg (33 pounds) stash of a lethal explosive known as Cyclotrimethylene trinitramine, RDX, at a golf course on Mama Ngina Drive in Mombasa County. According to the ATPU, the three suspects were actively involved in planning the escape plan of the two Iranian nationals and investigations into their involvement are pending. “Information received so far shows that the three met on diverse dates with a senior diplomat at the Iranian embassy and the main discussion was how to aid the two individuals to escape,” said State lawyer Duncan Ondimu. Mr Ondimu added: “Investigations are complex and require additional time as it involves a number of agencies as well as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs due to the fact that the matter includes a senior diplomat at the Iranian Embassy.” $150,000 The senior diplomat allegedly booked a flight with Qatar Airways on February 10 and was scheduled to leave alongside the duo the following day. Mr Kiptanui and Mr Agyei were arrested on Friday in Kilimani, while Mr Nyangaresi, an advocate, was arrested on Sunday at the Old Nairobi Area police station. The ATPU told the court yesterday that Mr Kiptanui was introduced to a senior diplomat, only identified as A. Okello, at the Iranian Embassy around June last year before meeting another individual, named H. Noor, at a city restaurant. The court heard that subsequent meetings were held and that the trio allegedly told the senior diplomat that they were willing to spend $150,000 to ensure the two Iranians return to their home country. The court will rule Tuesday.   So confident was he of success that he pre booked flight tickets for the three of them.