Homicide detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) combed the house of lawyer Robert Chesang’ in search of clues on who his killers might have been and what their motive was. The search lasted for the better part of Monday. AK-47 RIFLE The investigators arrived at the advocate’s home early morning as the Law Society of Kenya (LSK) piled pressure on them to unearth the killers. A detective privy to the investigations told the Nation that the execution of the lawyer was well planned. Most puzzling was how those who shot him entered the gated-community, shot him seven times and then walked out of the estate, he said. “From the preliminary analysis, the killers used an AK-47 rifle, which is very loud. That they shot him seven times, during the day and managed to go away without neighbours seeing them is very strange,” an officer said. Apart from the criminal angle, police would also be looking into the status of a family dispute that the lawyer had been entangled in for years, the detective said. Court documents obtained by the Nation also indicate that the lawyer was fighting a vicious family dispute pitting him against his wife. It is also evident from the court filings that there were several incidents of mistrust and the lawyer had feared for his life given the court had directed the police to ensure his security, yet he had cited most of them as respondents. PARTISAN In another document seen by the Nation, the lawyer had at one point accused one of the magistrates of being partisan and showing open support to his wife. Detectives also interrogated the security guards and some neighbours who reported hearing gunshots before alerting the police on Sunday when the incident happened at Moke Gardens in Lukenya, Machakos County. A police report seen by the Nation stated that after the 12.30pm incident, the police who were alerted rushed to the house and jumped over the gate that was locked. “They peeped through the sitting room window and saw an unknown male adult lying in a pool of blood,” the report indicated. Seven used cartridges of an AK 47 riffle were found on the ground. But investigators studying the angles of the bullets said Mr Chesang’s killers may have shot him through the window.   Lawyer was gunned down in his Athi River house on Sunday.