Love can be found in the strangest of places. For some it starts in a café, others at work, others at social gatherings, others when they are introduced by mutual friends, while others bump into each other in the most awkward of places and something beautiful blossoms. For Metienne (Metrine, a Kenyan, and Adrien, a French national from Reunion Island), their love was brewed on the internet. A look at the couple shows you the love long matured and it can only get better with time. It has been three years of love, a long-distance relationship, and trying to find a way to close the distance between them. They talk to Nation.co.ke.  Adrien: I met my princess online through her blogging platform. She used to write articles and share them on ‘NearbyLive’. I would read and think, “Wow, she can be a good catch”. One day I took the bold step and sent her a message. We fell in love right away! After six months of online communication, I flew to Kenya to finally meet the love of my life for the first time.    What we love doing as a couple Adrien: We love vlogging for our YouTube channel (When I am in the mood of course, hehe). We also enjoy shopping together because we laugh most of the time. Metrine: I enjoy watching movies and travelling with Adie. This is ironic because I am not a movies person and I rarely travel but when Adrien comes into the picture there is an excitement and sense of safety that comes along with it.  How do you resolve conflict? Metrine: We talk about it and take our time to find a solution. We have learnt not to postpone problems and to listen to what the other person has to say. When we are together, we go on a date and talk about it to get a middle ground.    What challenges have you faced as a couple? Adrien: The loss of Metrine’s dad. I had to be fully supportive because I know how much he meant to her. Metrine: Language barrier. We have different native languages hence socialising with friends and family can be hectic, but I am learning French. Being in a long distance relationship was quite challenging, but it is worth it when you are with the person who means the world to you. You just have to plan it out well and be sure of where both of you want to go. When that is sorted, it becomes an exciting adventure.     Plans for Valentine's Day Metrine: This is a special Valentine's Day for us as it is the first one we will celebrate together. We believe in celebrating love every single day but I am planning to surprise Adrien with a special dinner date, my treat.  The most romantic gestures: Metrine: Adrien does so many romantic things for me, but let me single out two. He proposed to me in front of my family and friends. It was a very special moment for me, romantic and well thought out. The ring was really beautiful. I couldn't help but shed tears of joy. Also, despite Adrien being in a different profession, he has always helped me study for my exams. I find that super romantic. Adrien: I find the little gestures that Metrine does for me romantic. She gives me gifts, cooks for me special meals, and makes special videos.  Things that strengthen our love: Communication, romantic gestures, and planning and setting our goals and ambitions together. This keeps us going.     What are your most memorable moments together? Metrine: Our pre-wedding in Kenya and my relocation to Germany for studies. He took days off and came to help me settle in. He is a gentleman!  What do you look forward to in the future? Adrien: Our wedding this year, closing the long distance to finally live together, our future house, and first child.  ***Would you like to share your love story? Send an email to lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com  