In my fantasy life, I am a sinewy, impish British man who has a crisp accent, dates a beautiful Latina woman, drives an Aston Martin Volante and happens to be a best-selling author like Robert Ludlum. That’s not all. I also happen to lead a secret life as a spy who speaks 11 languages, including the Khoisan dialect. Basically, I picture myself as a wildly successful writer who is a part-time James Bond. Such a combination is unlikely to ever happen but isn’t that what fantasies are for? When I am bored, I also like imagining myself in a Casino in Marbella, Spain. I picture myself sipping a double Martini as I gamble and win millions. Next to me, my Venezuelan girlfriend applauds and congratulates me with the words “Felicidades mi amor!” (Congratulations my love!) REALITY In reality, I am just Etemesi from Kakamega County. I have no best-selling book and the closest I have come to dating a Latina is when I hooked up with a girl called Gabriela back in my college days. She told me her mother was from somewhere in South America but she left her dad when she was still young. My foolish self believed her and went on to brag. Not a day would pass without me boring my friends with tales of her. Gabriela this, Gabriela that. It became a song. I mean, she really had that light complexion. It turned out she was from Kaloleni and Gabriela wasn’t even her real name. She was called Prudence. And she normally spoke concentrated Sheng that she would expertly conceal whenever she was with me. Still, I kept on fantasizing. They say it’s foolish to just dream without doing anything to make the dream a reality, so this past weekend, I decided to make one of my dreams a reality - gambling. Since I couldn’t go to a casino in Marbella the most realistic thing to do was to bet on football. What took me so long? Unlike many anti-gamblers, I don’t consider betting to be farcical and unnecessary. I am just one of those people who have a fear of losing money. I keep checking my pockets to make sure the money I carried is still there. I can even get a heart attack when I drop a 20 bob coin without realising it. Due to this, I have always avoided betting. I have also never considered myself a lucky chap. Nothing in my life has happened to prove that I should be taking more risks and the odds will be in my favour. Bad luck likes me more than good luck so I have always avoided betting. I am also not very good at predicting things. I would make a very poor prophet. But I did it anyway. I had to. PLANNING FOR A WIN January was brutal and I’ve been doing everything possible to make sure February runs smoothly. A little extra cash would go a long way. And if I kept it up, maybe I’d be a multi-millionaire soon and actually get a real Latina bae. Aside from that, I also blame my friend Sam for leading me further into the temptation of gambling. Sam is an expert at betting. Just the other day, he placed Sh100 on one of the betting sites, predicted a number of games, and won a cool Sh16,000.  When he told me about it, I was hooked. There was a big game coming up on Sunday involving Arsenal and Manchester City. He showed me how in one of the popular sites, the odds of Arsenal beating Manchester City were 12. This meant that if I placed Sh2,000 on Arsenal to win and they ended up victorious, I would walk away with a cool Sh24,000. At least that’s what he told me. Betting experts, was he right? Twenty-four thousand shillings is a lot of money. I could fly a woman to Diani on Valentine’s Day with that kind of money. I could eat chicken every day for the rest of the month with that kind of money. Chicken Tikka. Chicken Teriyaki, Chicken Choma. You name it. So I took my hard-earned money and bet with it as I waited for the game. I didn’t waste any time in searching for the best hotels and cottages at the coast. I actually found one that appealed to me. All that was remaining was finding the right girl and booking the hotel. I was confident that the underdogs Arsenal would pull a David whooping against the Goliath that is Manchester City. It didn’t happen. The gunners staged an artless spectacle and ended up getting thrashed 3-1. As someone who has been a football fan since I was eight years old, I was ashamed of myself. What made me think Arsenal would win? Poor Arsenal, of all teams. I should have known better. My Sh2,000 was gone just like that. Maybe I should have started small. I should have placed Sh100 just like Sam. Was I greedy? I don’t think so. I think I am just one of those people who adhere to the phrase ‘you either go big or home.’ I went big and lost. I don’t think I can keep trying. I’ll go crazy. So, let me just head back to my James Bond fantasies. Goodbye betting. *** Do you have feedback on this article? Please email: lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com   At this rate, I should also get myself a house help.