A 38-year-old man on Wednesday hacked his father to death before chopping his body into pieces in Silanga in Ol Kalou Constituency, Nyandarua County. After the incident, the suspect is said to have gone to Silanga market where he confessed to his friends that he had killed his 63- year-old father for refusing to give him Sh6,000. “My father tried to slap me when I demanded money from him. He said I was lazy and useless, (so) I attacked him to teach him a lesson,” the suspect reportedly told his neighbours. “I do not regret my action, after all, he is dead. I used a jembe to kill him then sliced him into pieces,” he added. ARROGANCE The suspect, who described his father as arrogant and mean, said that he had saved his siblings from their father’s arrogance. Mr John Maina's mutilated body was discovered a few meters from his house. Witnesses said that the man attacked his father with a machete before using a jembe to chop his body into pieces. After the incident, the suspect is said to have gone to Silanga market where he informed his friends that his father had died. The suspect’s elder brother Mr Joel Mwangi got suspicious on spotting blood stains on the suspect’s hands and clothes. “He (suspect) informed me that he found our father dead. When I asked him about the blood stains (on his hands and clothes), he claimed that he tried to load our father’s body into the family vehicle since he wanted to transport it to JM Memorial Mortuary,” said Mr Mwangi. REPORT INCIDENT While at the shopping centre, the suspect is said to have asked for the area chief’s phone number to report the incident before being frog marched to the scene of murder by irate residents. “He confessed that he had committed the murder after we found some of his bloodstained clothes at the scene of crime,” said Mr Mwangi. Neighbours described the deceased as a polite and friendly man. “We are shocked by his death. We are aware the killer son is a drug addict and a lazy troublemaker. We suspect he killed his father after he declined to give him money,” said Mr John Kamande, a neighbour.  