I was fortunate to survive the terrorist attack on Dusit D2, in Nairobi, thanks to our gallant men and women in uniform and civilians of goodwill who risked their lives to save others. I have reflected deeply on many aspects of the war against terrorism and offer some thoughts on an aspect I believe calls for a national conversation. I’ll start with a far-flung story. On November 23, 1985, three Palestinian gunmen commandeered an Egyptian airliner, forcing it to land in Malta, an island nation in the Mediterranean Sea. One of them, Omar Mohamed Ali Rezaq, demanded that Maltese authorities refuel the aircraft. To ensure compliance with his demands, Rezaq started shooting passengers and dumping bodies on the tarmac. CONVICTED Soon, Egyptian commandos stormed the aircraft. In the end, 60 people, including two of the terrorists, were dead. Rezaq managed to escape disguised as a passenger. He was arrested 20 years later, tried for the crime and sentenced by a Maltese court to 25 years in prison. There are several lessons to capture from the Rezaq saga. First, no matter how long it takes, it is possible to bring terrorists to justice. As the saying goes, “the wheels of justice turn slowly but grind exceedingly fine”. Secondly, it illustrates the fact that treating terrorists leniently has potentially dire consequences. Rezaq was on his way to Sudan when he was arrested in Lagos by United States authorities in 1993. Apparently, global terror mastermind Osama bin Laden was then believed to be operating in Sudan. PARTNERSHIPS Thirdly, it amplifies the notion that countering terrorism requires collaboration between government agencies, most notably the three organs of State — the Executive, Legislature and Judiciary. The core security functions of detecting, preventing and combating terrorism are the mandate of the Executive. For it to discharge these functions effectively, the Legislature must enact laws creating a robust legal framework. The duty of the courts is to interpret the laws, manage trials while protecting the suspects’ rights, of course, with due regard to the public interest concerns around national security and safety. Such is the approach we should adopt. However, there is a disturbing trend, where terror suspects are freed on bail or for lack of evidence without as high a regard for the public interest as there should be. JUDICIARY This lenient approach not only undermines public confidence in counter-terrorism efforts, but also emboldens criminal networks involved in planning, financing and executing terror. The public perceives the courts as not playing their rightful role in the war against terrorism. This came out very clearly after one of the suspects in the Westgate terrorist attack was, ostensibly, freed for lack of evidence. A day later, I was stuck at Dusit Hotel and on the verge of death as terrorists slaughtered 21 innocent people. One area that has elicited grave concern is the manner in which the courts exercise wide discretion in granting bail to terror suspects. Given the constant security threat posed by terrorist elements such as Al-Shabaab, releasing terror suspects on bail should be viewed as an even greater national security threat. Such individuals are capable of interfering with investigations and perpetrating further attacks. BAIL Of course, nobody disputes that a person charged with a criminal offence is presumed innocent till proven guilty. But bail in a matter of such high public interest should only be granted in exceptional circumstances. Promoting a liberal stance to bail under the guise of protecting the rights of suspects only emboldens terrorists and undermines counter-terrorism efforts. Although every case is to be treated on its merit, the courts ought to consider the implications of their decisions vis-à-vis the general public interest. Though not bound by public opinion, the Judiciary does not operate in a vacuum; it is an integral part of the society. It is only after you have gone through a terrorist attack that you realise the gravity of it. Mr Mwachinga is an advocate of the High Court of Kenya. emwachinga@yahoo.co.uk  