Art is a powerful tool that shapes character and values. There is scientific evidence that the kind of media that children consume has a huge impact on their growth and development. Children who are exposed to violent content evolve into violent adults and those exposed to harmful content develop defiance in adulthood. OBSCENITY The Kenya Film Classification Board (KFCB) regulates the making and exhibition of cinematographic films, licensing of stage plays, theatres and cinemas and such roles. The government regulates the public space. What people do in their houses is none of our business but when they perform on stage, there are rules and regulations. The Films and Stage Plays Act has two limbs — films (which include broadcast content) and stage plays, which include theatre, drama, discos and all stage performances. We have seen schoolchildren being influenced by artistes and wanting to emulate them. Some of the performances by artistes are vulgar and I would not want my children to emulate them. That is why I support the KFCB chief executive officer, Dr Ezekiel Mutua, that the law must be followed to the letter. KFCB has a duty, as expounded under Cap 222 of the Laws of Kenya and the Kenya Programming Code, to regulate film and broadcast content and stage performances to conform to our culture, national aspirations and moral values. Art should not be used to degrade our culture and promote obscenity. WATERSHED PERIOD The act of popular artistes seeking to attract audiences and relevance by exposing their private parts, gyrating in obscene ways and failing to uphold common decency in their public performances is wrong and should be stopped. In addition, our media must strictly adhere to the KPC and ensure that no unpalatable content is aired during the watershed period. Also, content should be suitable for all. The belief that only sexualised content appeals to audiences is wrong; we have rich artistes who do the right thing and they still sell. It is good that KFCB is collaborating with the Interior ministry, the police and other relevant State agencies to ensure that legal action is taken against premises that breach the law, particularly by admitting children to adult shows. The key to unlocking the potential of the creative economy in Kenya lies in having order, professionalism and discipline in the industry. ONLINE SAFETY We must be aware of the kind of content that our children are being exposed to and protect them from exposure to harmful material. In this Digital Age, where digital skills influence children’s futures, the contours of the global connectivity are troubling. Unless concerns of child online safety are addressed, rather than the internet being an equaliser of opportunity and connectivity it may deepen interrogational cycles of deprivation. It is said, “Educate your children to self-control, to the habit of holding passion and prejudice and evil tendencies subject to an upright and reasoning will, and you have done much to abolish misery from their future and crimes from society.” Mr Benard is a communication expert. benardkib@gmail.com  