A handful of Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti supporters took to the streets of of the lakeside town to celebrate Supreme Court’s decision to overturn the lower courts’ decision to nullify the governor’s victory. The supporters danced in the evening rain as those of former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga expressed disappointment with the top court’s ruling. During the celebrations at Posta Grounds, supporters urged the governor to unite the county that is currently faced with several court battles and leadership fights. UNITY “As the head of the county, the governor should find solutions to the ongoing cases about his chief officers, the Public Service Board and that of County Assembly Speaker,” Mr Ely Oyier said. He said projects in the county had stalled because of numerous conflicts in different departments. Mr Oyier argued that the court case that was facing the governor could have been a contributor to poor performance by the county. Another resident, Mr Opere Onimo said a by-election in the county seat would have heightened political temperatures in the county. “Supporters of both the governor and his opponent, Mr Magwanga, were divided over political differences. A mini poll would have reignited the division further,” Mr Onimo said. Mr Magwanga’s supporters on the other hand called for a restructure of the cabinet. Mr Michael Ogalo proposed that the governor should send home some of his executive members who have performed poorly so far. He also called for dismissal of officials who have been accused of corruption. “The governor has been silent over a long period of time despite his officials being accused of pocketing pubic funds. It’s time for them to be dismissed,” said Mr Ogalo. The supporter asked Mr Magwanga to join the governor in running the government. The former MP told his supporters to give the governor support until the end of his term in office. “My supporters should let the governor serve till 2022. Give them ample time to do his duties,” he said in a phone interview.   Supreme Court faults lower courts for ignoring key report.