Lawmakers allied to Deputy President William Ruto yesterday lashed out at Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria over his 2022 presidential bid. However, Mr Kuria was adamant that no one will stop him from contesting against Dr Ruto. Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu and woman representatives Catherine Waruguru (Laikipia) and Purity Ngirici (Kirinyaga) said Mt Kenya region would back the DP. 2032 Speaking during a memorial service to mark the second death anniversary of Nyeri Governor Nderitu Gachagua at Karatina Railway grounds yesterday, the leaders said they would only support Dr Ruto and told Mr Kuria to wait until 2032 to vie for the seat. “Let us stop engaging in 2022 succession debate because that discussion has been concluded. If anyone wants to be elected president, they should wait for 2032,” Ms Ngirici said. However, Mr Kuria retorted: “I am not vying in your house, so keep off.” Dr Ruto steered clear of the debate, saying he is focused on uniting Kenyans and the implementation of the Big Four agenda. “We do not want to go back to our terrible political past where we had hatred and tribalism. I give my commitment that we will transform the country by focusing on development and I urge all leaders to follow this path,” he said. Speaking on Friday at Rubate in Chuka/Igambang’ombe constituency during the burial of Ms Jennifer Cianjagi, the mother of Tharaka Nithi Governor Muthomi Njuki, Mr Kuria said he would announce his preferred party later. 'WRONG MESSAGE' “I am seeking for your support for presidency in 2022 but I will announce the party to contest on when the right time comes,” Mr Kuria said. Immediately after leaving the podium, politicians led by Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu and his Meru counterpart Kiraitu Murungi dismissed Mr Kuria as a detractor. Mr Waititu said Mr Kuria was sending a wrong message from Kiambu and that he had to set the record straight. "There is no confusion at all about the direction we are taking as Kiambu people. We are waiting for the right time to come and we will support you (Dr Ruto) because of your hard work since we love industrious people," said Mr Waititu. Addressing residents at Karatina Railway Stadium, the DP urged Kenyans to go for cancer screening regularly to ensure early detection and increase the chances of surviving the disease. “We lost the governor to cancer and on this day it's important to note that cancer can be cured if detected early. People succumb to the disease when it’s detected too late,” he said. Dr Ruto asked community health volunteers to create awareness among Kenyans on the importance of screening.   It is the Deputy President’s daily job to keep dream for presidency alive.