Two women are hospitalised at JM Memorial Hospital in Nyandarua County in critical condition after they were attacked by their husbands. A pregnant woman was attacked and injured by her husband at Rurii village, Ol Kalou Constituency. Ms Milka Wambui, who suffered severe injuries on her stomach and lower abdomen, was rushed to hospital in coma. “I love my husband so much, he also loves me and provides for the family, but he has a problem with my five-year-old son,” said Ms Wambui. Another victim, a 36-year-old mother of three, sustained serious burns after her husband splashed hot water on her at Uhuru village, Mirangine sub-county. The victim said her husband of 12 years was unhappy with her decision to send their first born teenage daughter to her parents. MAKING ADVANCES “My daughter had on several occasions complained that her father was making advances at her. I then decided to take to her to my parents’ home and this made my husband unhappy,” she told Nation on Wednesday. The businesswoman now plans to end her marriage of 12 years. “My husband often complained that my teenage daughter was a better cook. He even proposed to rent a separate house for her. When I opposed the idea, he got angry, attacked me with kicks and blows before splashing hot water on me,” she said. Ms Peris Wanjiku Nguku, a nurse in charge of women’s ward, said most of the patients were hospitalised following domestic violence. DOMESTIC VIOLENCE “Cases of domestic violence are on the rise, at least four women are hospitalised due to attempted suicide arising from domestic violence,” said Ms Nguku.Speaking at the hospital, women leaders blamed the incidents on drugs. “The (Laikipia) county government should employ marriage counsellors and fight drug abuse. Most reported cases indicate that the attackers were under the influence of drugs, while some are associated with stress due to financial constraints,” said nominated MCA Wanjiku Muhuhu. Majority Chief Whip Ms Wangari Methu asked the victims to seek counselling services. “The violence starts with verbal abuse, couples should go for counselling once verbal abuse starts,” said Ms Methu. Ms Esther Mwangi, a nominated MCA attributed the incidents to depression. “Children suffer the most where there are cases of domestic violence, men should accept children who are born out of wedlock,” said Ms Mwangi.  