Athletes across the country are hard at work focusing on their preparations ahead of the National Cross Country Championships cum trials to be held at Eldoret Sports Club on Saturday. Various teams are gearing up for the event that shall be used to select a team to represent the country at the IAAF World Cross Country Championships set for March 30 in Aarhus, Denmark. Japan-based athletes who have been excelling in various competitions have returned to the country with an eye on getting slots in the national team at the trials. The 2017 World Cross Country bronze medallist in the junior category Richard Kimunyan Yator, who has been contracted with Hitachi Transport in Japan, is eyeing the podium yet again but in the senior category this time around. He came back home in December last year and has been training in Torongo area of Baringo County, an area known for its high altitude as compared to Kaptagat and Iten. Kimunyan expressed to Nation Sport his optimism to excel at the national championships and get a chance to represent the country at this year’s world event. “I believe in my training and after getting back from Japan I have been focusing on my training because I know it won’t be a walk in the park,” said Kimunyan, who is a brother to World under-18 800m silver medallist Lydia Jeruto. Leonard Barsoton, the 2017 senior men’s World Cross Country silver medallist, who works for Nissin Company wants to upgrade from his performance two years ago and clinch gold at the global event. “Competition is stiff in Kenya because athletes are good and winning at home will be easy for one to win during the global event. I want to be in the national team that will be selected on Saturday,” said Barsoton who is currently training in Iten. Former 10,000m world junior champion Rodgers Kwemoi is also lining up in the race as he eyes victory in the 10km race. Kwemoi works with Aisan Industry in Japan, a company which is principally engaged in the manufacture and sale of automotive parts. Evans Keitany who came in third at the Central Rift Cross Country Championships also came back to the country in January from Japan. Keitany, who is employed by Toyota Boshoku, is seeking to be among the podium places in the senior men’s category. The athlete who is currently training in Iten with Barsoton said he would love to represent the country for the first time. “My training has been going on well and my dream is to get a chance in the national team to represent my country. I have never represented Kenya and I would be happy if I get a chance,” revealed the athlete who specialises in the 5,000m race. World Half Marathon bronze medallist Pauline Kaveke who won the senior women’s race at the Southern Regional Cross Country Championships is also seeking a place on the podium. Kaveke works with Route Inn Hotels in Tokyo, Japan and has been in the country for the last three months as she strategises on how to make the national team. “I love running for my country and that is why I have been around for some time now training hard for the national trials. I will be seeking a place in the first six positions,” said Kaveke, who has been training in Machakos. Grace Kimanzi, who was second behind Kaveke, is also based in Japan and works with Starts Company will also be eyeing a spot on the national team. Daniel Muiva, who works with Kenbo Company and Jonathan Muia who works with Hitachi are among other athletes who work and train in Japan that will be lining up for the National Cross Country Championship.  