A magistrate will rule Friday on whether to summon Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti for allegedly disobeying an order for fresh tests on fertiliser said to contain excessive mercury. The court will also rule on whether to summon Bernard Nguyo, the acting managing director and chief executive of the Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs). Senior Counsel Paul Muite told Milimani Principal Magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot that parties appeared in Mombasa on Thursday, for collection of samples as directed, only for the DCI and Kebs bosses to refuse to participate in the process. Mr Muite noted that the Kenya Revenue Authority was ready to comply with the order and open seals at the Bollore Logistics godown in Mombasa. 'ANARCHY' The counsel said the officials disobeyed a court order, an affront to the law. "They should come personally and explain to the court why they are disrespecting the order," he said. Mr Muite also noted that obeying a court order is not optional and that if not addressed, "anarchy" will follow. APPEAL Mr Muite further said the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) was buying time hoping his appeal would stop the process. However, Senior Assistant DPP Alexander Muteti told the court that the order had not been served on DPP Noordin Haji. He also said there was an additional order, which was not part of the directive given by the court. High Court judge Daniel Ogembo rejected the application by the DPP to stop the fresh tests. The samples were to be collected on Thursday and the tests carried out on Friday. SECURITY A Ballore warehouse, which was still holding 65,000 bags of the fertiliser, had been guarded by police round-the-clock. The DPP doubts the credibility of the samples and says they could have been interfered with. Regarding this, Mr Muite told the court that the General Service Unit officers guarding the premises were sent away but that the seals remained intact. RIGHTS Former Kebs managing director Charles Ongwae and 10 other officials are facing charges of attempted murder over the importation of fertiliser alleged to contain mercury. Mr Ongwae, through lawyers Ken Nyaundi and Edward Oonge, said it would be unfair for fresh tests to be conducted. The court heard that samples collected last year, and in which there was heavy presence of mercury, had been destroyed. But Mr Muite argued that the tests in June 2018 were conducted by a multi-agency team in the absence of the accused persons and that was in violation of their rights. THE SUSPECTS The other suspects in the case are Kebs former director of quality control Erick Kiptoo; Mr Peter Kinyanjui, the Inspection manager at the Kilindini Port; Mr Pole Mwangemi, the regional manager of the Coast region; and Mr Erick Kariuki, the Port Health officer at Kilindini. The rest are Mr Karim Lofti; Mr Benson Oduor, a supervisor at Bollore; Malika Karama;Younes Addou and OCP Kenya Limited. They are facing charges of attempted murder, abuse of office, commission of a felony and breach of trust. Mr Ongwae and several government officials are accused of unlawfully releasing 5,846,000 kgs of substandard compound fertiliser, which contained mercury, to OCP-K.   They have accused DPP Noordin Haji of trampling on their right to fair trial.