Kiambu Golf Club’s Joyce Wanjiru beat a big field of over 100 ladies at the par 71 Muthaiga Golf Club course on Saturday to clinch the overall title in the Kenya Ladies Golf Union (KLGU) Chairman’s Prize. The handicap-three Wanjiru, who is among the players who represented Kenya during last year’s All Africa Ladies Challenge in Ghana, picked up three birdies in a row from the fourth to the sixth having double-bogeyed the second. She later picked up two doubles at the seventh and ninth for two over par at the front ninth. She started the back nine with a par at the 10th, but dropped shots on 11th, 12th, 13th though she managed to par the rest of the holes at the back nine for six over 77 gross to claim the Muthoni Muthiga Trophy. “The course was playing easy with friendly pin positions though I bogeyed some holes which I should not bogeyed. All the same I am very happy winning the event," said Wanjiru. Taking the Bronze title was Lucy Njoroge on 92 gross with R. Patel winning rhe Lucy Maina Trophy for handicap 10 to 20. Winning the Silver Division’s nett title was Wairimu Thande on 71 nett after beating M.Muturi and Irene Auma on countback. Taking the nett title in the Bronze division was the nine-year-old Belinda Wanjiru who produced an excellent 66 nett to beat Florence Marangu by three shots as Rita Waruingi on 70 nett was third. “I am so happy with my scores, I played some few bad holes but my game is getting better by the day. I am working towards improving my general performance when I am not busy in school’’ said Wanjiru. The ladies were joined by over 100 men during the event where Edmund Kabira playing off handicap 15, carded nett 66 to take the overall men’s prize. He won by three shots from Tony Kwalanda on 69 nett. Immediate former captain of Muthaiga James Ondigo posted nett 70 to finish third with Mwai Mbuthia taking the fourth prize on 72 nett. The event was sponsored by a host of corporate organizations which included East Africa Breweries, Total Kenya, Eagle Africa Insurance Brokers, CarMax and Unilever Kenya among many others. The event marked the end of outgoing KLGU chairlady Lucy Muhinga’s term of office. Sports Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia paid glowing tribute to the KLGU for professionalism in its affairs. “Having been given funds to take the ladies team to Ghana, not only did you utilise the funds well but also returned a total of Sh500,000 which you did not use. This is why even the President Uhuru Kenyatta mentioned you during a very special event. I sincerely congratulate you for that very rare action,’’ said Kaberia who was the chief guest during the event which brought together players from all over the country.  