Veteran striker Dennis Oliech was absent from Gor Mahia’s final training session held on Saturday at the Moi International Sports Centre in Kasarani ahead of their Caf Confederation Cup Group “D” match against Nasr Athlétique de Hussein Dey on Sunday. The match will kick off at 4pm, and K’Ogalo will be hoping to collect the three points expected of the host team and claw their way back on top of the group table. Gor lost to 2-1 to Petro Atletico in Luanda, Angola 10 days ago to surrender the group table leadership. The reigning league champions are, however, likely to be without Oliech, who is said to have refused to join the team for training over payment issues. Reports indicate he has not been paid his full monthly salary and allowances. Oliech featured in Gor’s 4-2 mauling of Egyptian football giants Zamalek in their opening group match but missed their trip to Angola with injury. Gor will also be without defender Joash Onyango, as he has accumulated two yellow cards and is therefore ineligible to play. K’Ogalo coach Hassan Oktay will however be pleased with the return of strikers Jacques Tuyisenge, defensive midfielder Ernest Wendo and right back Philemon Otieno. WENDO RETURNS The Rwandan star has served his suspension alongside Otieno while Wendo has recovered from injury. Speaking ahead of Sunday’s showdown, Oktay said: “It is a big game. I have watched both their matches and they are a very good team. They were very sharp against Zamalek and in that match I saw some players who are capable of decisively influencing matches.” The Cypriot coach was speaking about sensational midfielder Faouzi Yaya who netted that last-gasp equaliser to earn visiting Hussein Dey a 1-1 draw against Zamalek in Cairo last week. And goalkeeper Gaya Merbah who delivered a phenomenal performance against Zamalek. Hussein Dey arrived in the country on Thursday and were expected to feel the Kasarani pitch Saturday afternoon under the tutelage of coach Mezaine Ighil. K’Ogalo go into this match on the back of Wednesday’s 1-1 draw against Western Stima in a league match that saw Oktay rest team captain Haron Shakava, Boniface Oluoch, Shafik Batambuze, Kenneth Muguna, Boniface Omondi and Francis Kahata. Hussein Dey are perched on top of the pool with four points from two games, followed closely by Gor Mahia and Petro Atletico who have three points. Egypt’s Zamalek is placed bottom with a single point. Nasr Athlétique de Hussein Dey is based in Hussein Dey, 10km to the east of Algiers. The club was founded in 1947 and its official home ground is the 10,000-seater Stade du 20 Août 1955, has a capacity of 10,000 spectators. Tickets for the match are retailing at Sh500 and Sh200, and gates open at 10am. Gor have meanwhile raised concerns about the identity and conduct of the match officials. 'SOMETHING FISHY' Club Chief executive Officer Lordvick Aduda on Saturday said that he suspected something fishy, as match commissioner Mamoun Bushara was making unreasonable demands. “At the pre-match meeting on Friday, he wanted to go away with the balls and the flag; even though the flag was dirty and needed to be washed first," claimed Aduda. “What was even more surprising was that this was the same match commissioner that was here for our game against Zamalek. We are wondering what criteria was used to select him to officiate back to back matches in the same country,” he said. Aduda went on to explain that the match commissioner refused to check in at the hotel that the team had booked for him, and insisted on going to Laico Regency. Coincidentally, that was the facility in which Gor’s opponents Hussein Dey team was putting up in. Match officials: Center Referee: Abdoul Ohabee Kanoso, Madagascar First Assistant Referee: Lionel Hasinjarasoa Andrianantenaina, Madagascar Second Assistant Referee: Pierre Jean Eric Andrivoavonjy, Madagascar Fourth Official: Andofetra Avombitana Rivolala, Madagascar Match Commissioner: Mamoun Bushara Nasir, Sudan Referee Assessor: Leslie Leonard Liunda, Tanzania General Coordinator: Sidio Jose Mugadza, Mozambique  