Britam Tower has been named the top skyscraper in Africa in the global architecture awards announced in Germany recently. Consequently, the firm has received the Emporis Skyscraper Award, becoming the only skyscraper in Africa to feature among the top 10 buildings in the world in the award’s 19-year history. BREATHTAKING Announcing the awards, Emporis, a leading repository of information on building and construction projects and based in Germany, said that Britam Tower was the first skyscraper in Africa to feature among the winners since its inception in 2000. “Britam Tower by GAPP Architects and Triad Architects made its way to the tenth position among other outstanding skyscrapers in the world,” the Emporis management said in a statement. The iconic Tower, developed by Britam Properties Limited, is currently the tallest building in East and Central Africa, rising from Nairobi’s skyline at 200 metres, and is Britam’s flagship project for its property strategy. Located in the upmarket Upperhill area, the 31-storey skyscraper offers panoramic and breathtaking views of the capital and surrounding areas, like the Nairobi National Park. On clear days, both Mount Kenya and Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania can be seen from the top of the building. According to Triad, the tower is the international headquarters of Britam Holdings Plc and serves as the regional headquarters of the business conglomerate in East and Central Africa. COMMERCIAL SENSE “The building had to make sound commercial sense to the investor and tenants alike and add value to the precinct in which it is situated,” Triad architects said. The Tower was assessed among other buildings in Europe, Asia and the United States that included Generali Tower in Milan, Chicago’s 150 North Riverside and Riverpoint. The top spot went to the Lotte World Tower in Seoul, South Korea. Completed in November 2017, the tower is owned by Britam Life Assurance Ltd. Britam Properties, a fully-owned subsidiary of Britam Holdings Limited, developed the property. The Emporis Skyscraper Award is the world’s most coveted prize for high-rise architecture. A jury of experts from all over the world chooses the winners, while the nominated buildings are judged based on their achievements in function and aesthetics.   British-American Asset Managers plans to invest Sh35 billion as it seeks to expand its property portfolio.