Top spot in the SportPesa Premier League table beckons for champions Gor Mahia when they face Western Stima Tuesday afternoon at the Moi International Sports Center in Kasarani. K’Ogalo have been churning out wins in the last few weeks and they have an opportunity to go on top if they can clinch maximum points against the visiting power men in this 4pm clash. Theirs is the only midweek fixture on schedule, and this gives the reigning champions a chance to cut back on the gap that stands between themselves and current table leaders Bandari, who have 28 points. Three points will see Gor climb over second-placed Mathare United and onto first place on the log, albeit on equal place with the dockers. To this end, K’Ogalo have a worthy squad that includes star striker Dennis Oliech, who is back from injury and was a second half substitute in their 1-0 against Sofapaka last Sunday. The Kenyan international is not likely to start, but his presence is a great boost for Gor, who also have Rwandan Jacques Tuyisenge and the raw but talented Nicholas Kipkurui available for selection. Gor coach Hassan Oktay seems to have found a winning formula and is currently enjoying good results at the club. He has, however, decried the fixture glut that his team has to contend with, but is thankful for the good quality of his players. “We played a high intensity game in Angola last week and two days later we played a very tough game (against Sofapaka) yet we got a win. I credit that success to the kind of players at my disposal and I look forward to another good day tomorrow (Wednesday),” the Cypriot said. Western Stima will approach this match on the back of a 2-1 win over Mount Kenya United, but shaken by the Football Kenya Federation Player Status Committee ruling on Monday that found them guilty of fielding an ineligible player against Tusker. The FKF PSC ruled that Kevin Okoth was a Tusker player who was on loan to Stima, and was therefore ineligibly fielded in the team’s 1-0 won over the brewers. The cancellation of the three points against Tusker has dragged Stima from fifth to seventh place on the log. “My assessment of our last match against Mount Kenya is that we need to work on our finishing. I have done a bit of that this week but what remains is to sign good players in the March transfer window,” said Stima coach Paul Ogai, who is likely to start with Kennedy Otieno and Fredrick Nyarombo, who were on target for the Kakamega-based side last weekend.  