Kenya Cup sides Kenya Harlequin, Strathmore Leos, Menengai Oilers and Mean Machine are through to the second round of the Enterprise Cup rugby championship. As expected, Quins proved callous, touching down 14 tries to crash Division II side Ngong 80-3 at the RFUEA as the Leos disposed of Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT) 59-15 at the Madaraka grounds on Saturday. Menengai Oilers cruised through without a sweat after their opponents Monks from Catholic University failed to show up for their duel at Nakuru showground. Machine also claimed a walkover against Masinde Muliro, who failed to show up for their clash University of Nairobi grounds. Hosts Kisii and Western Bulls also earned walkovers to the second round after their opponents the University of Eldoret and Egerton Wasps failed to honour their fixtures. Also earning a walkover was South Coast Pirates against former Kenya Cup side Kisumu. Mombasa had to battle before dismissing Moi University 20-19 at the Mombasa Sports Club to advance to the second round. Quins now have an interesting second round date against defending champions Homeboyz at Jamhuri Park, while the Leos will meet Impala Saracens. Kisumu have a second round date with Kenyatta University’s Blak Blad, Mombasa are up against Kabras Sugar while Menengai Oilers meet Nondescripts. Machine meet Mwamba, Kisii face Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB), while Western Bulls take on Nakuru all in the second round matches that are due March 9. Second row Tony Mutai was the star at the RFUEA where he scored a hat-trick for Quins. Eighthman George Scott and inside centre Jasper Ochen managed a brace of tries each for Quins. Aaron Ofoywoth, Frank Wanyama, Aluda Beda, Martin Wanjia, William Ambaka, Herman Humwa and Peter Misango scored a try each. “I was just trying out several combinations besides giving the players, who have been coming off the bench some airtime,” said Quins coach Charles Cardovillis adding that it has given him some insight ahead of their next Kenya Cup dual against Kabras on Saturday next week. Enterprise Cup first round results. Kenya Harlequins 80-3 Ngong Warriors; Kisumu 24-0 South Coast Pirates; Mombasa 20-19 Moi University; Menengai Oilers 24-0 CUEA Monks; Strathmore Leos 59-15 JKUAT; Mean Machine 24-0 Masinde Muliro; Kisii 24- 0 University Of Eldoret; Western Bulls 24-0 Egerton Wasps   He disclosed that he had lined up a strong squad to confront the students.