Nakuru County residents will soon scrutinise the use of devolution funds and projects if the County Civic Education Bill 2019 is enacted into law. The Bill sponsored by Viwandani (Naivasha) MCA Erick Kariuki Gichuki, which has gone through the first reading, will now be subjected to public participation as required by the Constitution. After the public participation, the Bill will go through the second and third readings before it is forwarded to Governor Lee Kinyanjui for assent or further advise. SERVICE DELIVERY “The objective of this Bill is to give residents or any persons with interest in county governance matters to participate in policy or service delivery matters,” said Mr Gichuki. The Bill seeks to establish the office of the Director of Civic education whose responsibilities include conducting education and establishing structures for the same in accordance with section 100 and 91 of the County Government Act. The director will be appointed by the governor from officers already in the public service. However, the public service board will recruit other officers with the approval of the chief officer. The office will also provide oversight to the work of civic educators in the constituency, wards and village level. CIVIC EDUCATION According to the Bill, the office of the director of civic education will be required to provide the public with a clear context for which civic education is to be undertaken and how the decisions will be made. The executive will also be required to submit an annual report to the assembly on matters relating to governance. The office of the director of civic education will maintain an up to date database or inventory of all the civic education programmes, trainings and activities. IMPRISONMENT The Bill seeks to establish the County Civic Education Advisory Committee. It will also involve the public directly to ensure that public concerns are understood at the sub-county, ward and village level. The civic education forums will be convened at least four times at the village, ward and sub county level each year. The Bill proposes a fine of Sh50,000 or three months’ imprisonment or both to anyone who attempt to influence the executive, administrator, director or any other officer to enforce an obligation contrary to the proposed Act.  