President Uhuru Kenyatta has led Kenyans in mourning lawyer and prominent businessman Karanja Kabage who died on Friday night after being involved in a road accident in Nairobi. According to his close friends and family, the lawyer was pronounced dead on arrival at the Nairobi Hospital. He was the one driving when his car lost control on the Southern bypass, according to the police. "Preliminary investigations indicate that the deceased was driving a black Land Cruiser VX along the Southern bypass from Ole Sereni direction towards Kikuyu general direction. According to eye witnesses, the vehicle veered off to the wrong side of the road, slowed down, appeared to be making a U-turn before slightly hitting the pavement," the police said in a statement. President Kenyatta, who is on an official trip in Tanzania, has said Kenya has lost a resourceful person especially in the insurance sector. Mr Kabage is a prominent insurance expert who has served as a director at African Reinsurance Corporation and First Reinsurance Brokers Limited. “It is painful to lose a great friend at a time like this. I pray that God will give the family, friends and relatives comfort and fortitude at this trying moment,” said Mr Kenyatta. “Indeed Karanja Kabage was a resourceful. Kenya has lost a resourceful person who was always willing and ready to offer legal aid to those who sought his help,” said the President. Mr Kabage who was a regular panellist on NTV's AM Live show was 70. He vied for and lost the Nakuru senatorial seat in the 2017 General Election. 'COMMUNITY CHAMPION' Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui on Saturday led other leaders from the region in mourning the businessman. Governor Kinyanjui described the late Kabage as a man with a big heart for charity who used his position to champion for the vulnerable members of the community. "It is with profound shock and sadness that we have learnt of the demise of Lawyer Karanja Kabage. He was a respected lawyer, businessman and politician who took great interest in national affairs. My condolences to family and friends. May the almighty God rest his soul in eternal peace," stated Mr Kinyanjui in a statement to newsrooms. Njoro MP Charity Kathambi, who was his opponent in the 2017 General Elections described him as an astute businessman, hardworking, an exceptional leader and a man of great abilities. Kuresoi South MP Joseph Tonui described Mr Kabage as a man who loved his nation and dedicated most of his life to serving the great nation. "The cruel hand of death has robbed Nakuru and Kenya one of its illustrious sons," he said, adding that he was praying to God to give Mr Kabage's family the necessary fortitude to bear the loss. POLITICAL ASPIRATIONS Lawyer Kabage was a front runner in the 2017 Nakuru senatorial seat. He vied for the senatorial seat but lost the Jubilee Party ticket to current Senator Susan Kihika, who led with a wide margin, garnering 273,274 votes against his 51,821 votes. After losing the Jubilee Party ticket in the nominations, he withdrew his senatorial candidacy and vied for the Njoro parliamentary seat which he again lost to Charity Kathambi. In 2013, he also unsuccessfully vied for the Njoro parliamentary seat. He was defeated by former MP Joseph Kiuna. He later challenged Mr Kiuna's win but the petition was thrown out. He was born on September 9, 1949 at Elburgon, Molo Sub-County, Nakuru. EDUCATION He holds a Bachelors of Laws degree from the University of Nairobi, a Masters of Laws from the same university and an MBA from USIU-Africa. He was pursuing a PhD in environmental policy. He was the chairperson of Pacific Insurance Brokers company and a board member in Africa Reinsurance company and Kenya Private Sector Alliance. Previously, he served in the National Social Security Fund Board, Labour Advisory Board, Energy Regulatory Commission Board, Public Procurement and Proposal Board, Communications Authority of Kenya  and in the East African Business Council.  