The former Kerio Valley Development Authority (KVDA) managing director David Kimosop has been charged in court over the Sh63 billion Kimwarer and Arror dams scandal. He is among nine suspects that had yet to be arraigned after last week's arrest and charging of more than 10 suspects including former National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich and his ex-Principal Secretary Kamau Thugge. Mr Kimosop was arrested on Friday morning at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport as he returned to the country from Kinshasa in Democratic Republic of Congo through Tanzania.   The suspects are being charged with multiple counts including abuse of office, conspiracy to commit an economic crime, among other charges. One of the accused persons, Nelson Korir, has been been brought from hospital accompanied his doctor, according to his lawyer Katwa Kigen, who requested that he be allowed to sit during the plea-taking. Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti said Mr Korir should also not be taken to the basement cells pending the processing of his bail terms. Other suspects arraigned are Jackson Njau, Titus Mureithi, Elizabeth Kebenei, Fredrick Towett, Boniface Mamboleo Lengisho, Isaac Kiiru, and Patrick Kipsang. The Director of Public Prosecution, through special prosecutor Taib Ali Taib protested the failure of CMC di Ravenna directors to appear in court. "What is at stake is not their availability but the refusal to submit themselves in court," Mr Taib said, adding that Mr Paulo Porcelli "is a fugitive. Despite being given the opportunity, he hasn't presented himself to court." "We strongly urge the court to issue warrants for their production without any hesitation," he said. Lawyer Mr Anami who is presenting Mr Porcelli and Italian firms CMC Di Ravenna Itinera JV, and CMC Di Ravenna Itinera JV Kenya told the court that the charges were defective and should be argued before plea is taken. The court has however dismissed it. Chief Magistrate Ogoti said the defendants are free to pursue the matter later and should the DPP wish to reply, he can do so after plea. Mr Anami told the court that he had been instructed to take plea on behalf of the companies. He denies the charges on behalf of the companies. He however did not take plea for Mr Porcelli. More follows...  