Meru Speaker Joseph Kaberia's bodyguard Samuel Munga Muhaso died in Nairobi on Sunday following a shooting incident that involved his driver Andrew Nabea. The incident took place at Kamiti Corner outside a house belonging to Mr Nabea's sister. A report from Kasarani Police Station states that one Sarah Karambu received a call from her brother who asked her to open the gate for them. They had arrived from Meru in a county assembly car. "Before she opened the gate, she heard gunshots outside," police said, adding Mr Muhaso was shot in the chest and Mr Nabea in the left leg. The police report said, "It appears the two had a misunderstanding that resulted in the shooting." CRIME SCENE Police took the two to Ruaraka's Uhai Neema Hospital but Mr Muhaso died from his injuries. The driver was stable but was taken to Aga Khan University Hospital for advanced treatment. From the scene, police collected Mr Muhaso's Ceska pistol that had 15 bullets and Mr Nabea's Ceska pistol which had three bullets. They said Mr Nabea, who had a civilian firearm certificate, had spent 20 rounds of the ammunition and that the car had only one bullet hole on the side. STAFF'S ACCOUNT Assembly staff told the Nation that Mr Muhaso and Mr Nabea were close friends who worked in harmony. They said the two even shared a rental house in Zimmerman, near Ms Karambu's house, and that they stayed there whenever they were in Nairobi. “They went to pick dogs from Nabea’s sister’s house when the unfortunate incident happened,” Mercy Nthuku, the assembly's communications director, said, noting she spoke to the two earlier. Ms Nthuku also said she spoke to Mr Nabea before he was taken for an operation in the afternoon. She said the driver told her that a shootout ensued as he and Mr Muhaso were accosted by two men. “He was seriously wounded. He had two gunshot wounds in one leg and a bullet lodged in the hip. It is not true that the two were arguing before the shootout,” she said. INVESTIGATION Police said, however, that they were watching the driver. “We have not arrested anybody but the driver is still under our watch. We do not want to rule out anything,” said Nairobi police boss Philip Ndolo. Mr Kaberia eulogised his bodyguard as a good and dedicated servant. Mr Muhaso's body was taken to the Kenyatta University Funeral Home for an autopsy as part of investigations.  