Mwamba Rugby Club are the new Kabeberi Sevens rugby tournament champions. Kenya Sevens star Billy “The Kid” Odhiambo landed a brace of tries as Mwamba beat Menengai Oilers 27-7 to win the second leg of the Stanbic Bank National Sevens Series at Kinoru Stadium, Meru on Sunday. Another Kenya Sevens star Collin Injera, Steve Sikuta and Tony Omondi scored Mwamba’s other try as Injera made one conversion to hand Kulabu the title they last won in 2015. Austin Sikutwa’s exploits of a try failed to spur Menengai Oilers who trailed 15-0 at the break. The Series were held in Meru for the first time. Steve Sikuta, Omondi and Odhiambo went over to hand Mwamba a 15-0 lead at the break after Omondi failed to add on the extras for Mwamba, who had finished third at Kakamega Sevens last weekend. Then Injera extended Mwamba’s lead to 20-0 after a conversion fell short before Sikutwa sliced through the Mwamba defence to land a centre post try for the Oilers. The conversion was good but Odhiambo cut Oilers celebrations when he completed his double. Then Injera converted as Kulabu tossed to victory. However, it was a considerable improvement by Gibson Weru’s Oilers, who had claimed Challenge Trophy in Kakamega. Nakuru finished third after they stunned Kakamega Sevens champion Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) 17-12 while the Series defending champion Homeboyz, who were also the Kabeberi titleholders, settled for fifth after piping Nondescripts 12-0. Impala lifted Challenge Trophy beating Strathmore Leos. The victory saw Mwamba move to the top of the Series standings with 39 points. “After finishing third in Kakamega, we had to improve on our kicking, defence and ball possession,” said Mwamba head coach Kevin “Bling” Wambua. “We played an awesome game and it was evident in Meru...that is the kind of display I wanted from my charges.” Wambua said the Series break will now enable his charges to recover ahead of Dala Sevens where they will be defending their title from August 8-9 at Mamboleo Showground, Kisumu. Mwamba stunned KCB 21-7 while Menengai Oilers stopped Nakuru 12-7 to set up the Cup final.  