President Uhuru Kenyatta and other leaders have mourned Ms Rahab Wambui Muhuni, the mother one-time presidential aspirant Peter Kenneth who has died in Nairobi. Ms Muhuni, 86, died on Thursday morning at the Aga Khan University Hospital, Nairobi where she has been receiving treatment since December last year. LONG ILLNESS According to Gatanga MP Nduati Ngugi, a close confidant of Mr Kenneth’s family, Ms Muhuni died after a long illness. “We lost her today morning (Thursday) after a long illness. She has fought a long battle but she has gone to be with the Lord,” Mr Ngugi told the Nation. In his condolence message, President Kenyatta prayed for God’s comfort and providence to her family. “It is with profound sadness that I have this morning received news of the death of Mama Rahab Wambui Muhuni. Condolences to my friend Peter Kenneth and the entire family. I pray for God’s comfort and providence in this difficult period of mourning,” the President said through the State House Twitter handle. ODM leader Raila Odinga also sent his condolence message to Mr Kenneth and his family following the demise of his mother. “My condolence goes to Peter Kenneth following the passing on of his mother Rahab Wambui Muhuni. May God grant him and the entire family strength and fortitude at this trying moment and may her soul rest in eternal peace,’ Mr Odinga wrote on his Twitter handle. FREEDOM FIGHTER Mr Ngugi told the Nation that Mr Odinga will visit the family at 4pm Thursday. Murang’a Women Rep Sabina Chege also mourned the passing on of Ms Muhuni. “My condolences to my friend and a former Gatanga MP Hon. Peter Kenneth for the loss of his mother Mrs. Rahab Wambui. My thoughts and prayers are with him and the entire bereaved family during this trying moment,” Ms Chege said. Ms Muhuni was a close friend of former freedom fighter and controversial politician Virginia Wambui Otieno. She gave evidence in the landmark case pitting Mrs Otieno and Joash Ochieng’ Ougo, a brother of her husband Silvano Melea Otieno, popularly known as S.M. Otieno. She was once a deacon at the PCEA Bahati Martyrs Church in Nairobi.  