Race walker Emily Ngii is the lady of the moment in local athletics circles. The 39-year-old Ngii ended seasoned Grace Wanjiru’s 18-year-old reign at the Kenya Defence Forces Championships when she cruised to victory in women’s 20km race walk at Kasarani on Wednesday.Ngii, who had a fortnight ago also ended Wanjiru’s 12 years dominance on the national scene, once again reigned supreme in 1 hour and 39.09 seconds, relegating the six-time Africa champion, to second place in 1:39:27. Ngii had during the African Games trials on June 21 stormed top victory in 1:38:43, outclassing Wanjiru to second place in 1:39:312 but both athletes qualified for the continental games. It was Ngii’s maiden victory since embracing the race walk in 2011, the same year she joined KDF, having player as a striker in football for Ilako Matuta High School, Kitui. Just what has changed at Ngii’s training under mentor and coach David Kimutai, the 1999 African Games and 2006 Africa race walk champion? “I changed my build up programme for longer period that stretched to over two hours while reducing my speed work,” said Ngii, who started her build up match earlier in November last year. “Ï only started my speed work two months ago.” Ngii, a Corporal based at 1KR Nanyuki, said that her boss Brigadier Joakim Mwamburi didn’t believe it when she stunned Wanjiru to triumph at the Africa Games trials. “Brigadier Mwamburi actually came to cheer me up hence I had to confirm that what I did at the trials wasn’t a fluke. I didn’t want to disappoint him,” said Ngii, who thanked her coach for the astute programs that have produced the best in her and Warrant Officer II Maurice Omollo for the inspiration. “This victory wasn’t really a surprise but what came as a shocker was my exploits at the African Games trials. I knew I would do it again at the KDF event and I couldn’t go wrong with Kimutai in charge,” said Ngii, who is now focused on trying to attain the 2019 Doha World Championships qualifying time of 1:33:30. Interesting, Ngii, the eighth born in a family of six boys and four girls where two boys are deceased, powered her Ilako School to the Nationals in Meru in 2007. “I only played football while in high school and only embraced athletics at KDF, having been drawn to waking by Kimutai," said Ngii. “I have been with Ngii since 2011 and I thought I should change her training program after I hanged my spikes two years ago,” said Kimutai. “I changed her walking technique for longer endurance purpose with lots of gym sessions,” said Kimutai. “I also slotted in third-leg where she takes a break within sessions.” In other results, Simon Wachira (Gilgil) retained men’s 20km race walk title in 1:27:06, beating Peter Theuri to second in 1:28:56 as Nicodemus Musau (Modika) settled third in1:32:33. Petronilla Muombe (Nanyuki) won women’s long jump and triple jump in 5.87m and 12.26m respectively while international Bethwel Lagat (MAB) retained men’s long jump title in 7.67m. International Alexander Kiprotich easily retained his men’s javelin title hauling 72.78m with Salome Moraa throwing 47.17m to win women’s category.  