The rift in Jubilee took a new turn on Thursday after Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi dared President Uhuru Kenyatta to resign. The Kapseret legislator accused President Kenyatta’s administration of being the most incompetent since independence. Mr Sudi said that president Kenyatta's administration was the worst in history and was running down the country's economy. “Ukiona Rais haiwezi kutana na viongozi na Governors na senators wanaandamana kwa barabara iko shida (when you a president who cannot meet with governors and senators forcing them to take to the streets just know we have a problem," said Mr Sudi. THREE MONTHS Addressing the press at his Kapseret home in Uasin Gishu County, Mr Sudi dared the President to give him only three months and he with run the country better than he is doing. “Just give me three months, I can even pick Moses Kuria (Gatundu South MP) as my deputy and you will see how I will transform this country. There is nothing like fight against corruption. This is all a charade to hoodwink Kenyans,” said the outspoken legislator. “Kama kuna Rais alikuwa mzuri ni Kibaki. Hii serikali ya Uhuru ni bure kabisa,” said Mr Sudi. He defended Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich and his Principal Secretary Kamau Thugge who are facing corruption charges over the Kimwarer and Arror dams scandal saying that the duo was just being used as sacrificial lambs as cover to the real culprits.POOR LEADERSHIP “Shida yenye Tuko nayo shida hii ni uongozi(The problem we’ve in this country is poor leadership. The so called Big Agenda Four Agenda is dead,” said Mr Sudi, a close ally to Deputy President William Ruto. “Hii Kenya maskini atazidi kuwa maskini.(The gap between the rich and poor will continue widening because of dynasties),” said the MP. He called on the DP to accept the fact that Jubilee is dead. “William Ruto, let me tell you that your friendship with president Kenyatta is fake. Why sacrifice innocent people in the name of fighting corruption?” said Mr Sudi.He wondered why the Kimwarer-Arror dams scandal was being revisited now yet the issue commenced in 2014. “Why say that Henry Rotich is a thief now yet he has been at the helm of the Treasury for seven years. This shows there is a problem somewhere Mr president,” said Mr Sudi. “Hii inaudhi sana. Niliuliza Rais kama kuna mahali wanekosana na William wasuluishe mambo yao lakini mambo yanaelekea kuwa mbaya,” said Mr Sudi. (I asked the President if he had differed with his deputy so that they can solve their differences but the situation keeps on deteriorating). DYNASTIES “I want to tell you that dynasties have no mercy. Sisi kama wanyonge tumeumia (We are suffering as the poor). (Mr) Thugge and (Mr) Rotich should know they have outlived their importance and it is now time to dump them,” said Mr Sudi. He claimed that the fight against corruption has been targeting people allied to the DP.Mr Sudi said that despite Rift Valley voting overwhelmingly for Jubilee, the region has been sidelined ‘as others who were opponents now enjoying the fruits’. President Kenyatta has since appointed Labour Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yattani in acting Treasury as CS, a fact which has not gone down well with leaders allied to the DP. Mr Yattani replaced Mr Rotich who was arrested on Monday and arraigned in court on Tuesday over the multibillion-shilling Kimwarer and Arror dams scandal in Elgeyo-Marakwet County. Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot said they are not opposed to the fight against corruption. He said the war on graft should not be done in a manner to suggest that it is targeted at one community or region. “I do not know about the guilt or otherwise of (Mr) Rotich and company but all I know is that there are over 200 Government of Kenya projects that have followed the same process as Kimwarer and Arror,” said Mr Cheruiyot.Keiyo South MP Daniel Rono said that the handshake between President Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga has sidelined the DP and Rift Valley.  