ODM leader Raila Odinga on Sunday visited former president Daniel arap Moi at his Kabarak home. Mr Odinga went to condole with Mr Moi following the death of his eldest son Jonathan Toroitich. Mr Toroitich, 64, who succumbed to cancer while undergoing treatment at a Nakuru hospital, was buried at his Kabimoi home, in Eldama Ravine last weekend. OFFICIAL TRIP Mr Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta did not attend the burial as they were on an official trip in China. During the burial on April 27, Siaya Senator James Orengo passed Mr Odinga’s condolences to the Moi family whereas those of President Kenyatta were given by his deputy William Ruto and his elder brother Muhoho Kenyatta. Mr Odinga, who was accompanied by his brother Dr Oburu Oginga, visited Kabarak where they were welcomed by Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, Tiaty Member of Parliament William Kamket and Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos. READ: Moi hosts leaders amid row over Ruto ‘snub’ On his twitter handle Mr Odinga said: “I visited retired President Daniel Arap Moi at his Kabarak home to condole with him following the recent passing of his son Jonathan. We continue to wish strength to the former president and his family. May God grant them peace during this trying time.” SHARED PHOTOS Mr Odinga also shared photos of him accompanied by Dr Oginga and Senator Moi, as he greeted the former president. Two days before the burial, Deputy President William Ruto visited the late Jonathan Toroitich Moi's home at Kabimoi, in Eldama Ravine, to condole with the family. Dr Ruto was accompanied by Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis, MPs Moses Lesonnet (Eldama Ravine) and Caleb Kositany (Soy) and other local leaders. He however, attended the funeral ceremony in Kabarak on April 27. While the family of Mzee Moi said it would not be receiving visitors at his home after the death of Jonathan, President Kenyatta met and condoled with the former Head of State a day before he left for China. He was received by Gideon Moi. RALLY DRIVER Besides President Kenyatta, other leaders including ex-vice president Kalonzo  Musyoka, former presidential candidate Peter Kenneth, Chief Executive Officer of the Kenya Film Classification Board Dr Ezekiel Mutua, Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua and Central Organization of Trade Unions boss Francis Atwoli were also allowed to see the former president. In May, last year, Dr Ruto visited the former president at his Kabarak home, but failed to meet him. The former president’s office later released a statement indicating that Mr Ruto, who was accompanied by Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter, Ainabkoi MP William Chepkut and lawyer Stephen Kipkenda, could not meet Mr Moi who instead offered to meet them on a later date. The former president was said to have been undergoing routine physical exercise with his doctors. Jonathan Toroitich Moi, a celebrated Safari rally driver, was buried last week.   President Kenyatta visits former President Moi at his home in Nakuru.