Justice Joseph Sergon, who ruled that former anti-corruption tsar John Githongo should pay Sh27 million for defaming Kibaki-era Internal Security minister Chris Murungaru, survived an adverse decision by the Vetting Board by fighting the finding that he was unfit to serve. His readmission to the Judiciary was characterised by court battles. His career was put in the spotlight during his vetting when 20 complainants, the highest for any person who faced the Judges and Magistrates Vetting Board, painted him as a vindictive, corrupt and harsh judge. A cold judge who issues orders without flinching even at the approach of a needle to his pupil, is how one of the complainants described him. During the vetting process, the Board initially found him unsuitable, relying on various accounts among them that a party in a case bribed him to rule in their favour, while as a lawyer in private practice he was accused of failing to notify his client about a court award of Sh550,000. COMPLAINTS Minutes of his vetting which was carried out in private bring out the description of a judge who survived because of the efforts of his lawyer Cecil Miller. Mr Miller put up a strong fight for Justice Sergon from his first day of appearance at the vetting panel, where he asked some members to recuse themselves for allegedly leaking information about his client to the public and media. Most of the complaints he faced were from almost all of the stations he had worked as a judge and where he practised as a lawyer. When issues where raised on how he made it to be a judge despite an integrity issue raised when he worked in private practice, the judge shocked the board by saying he was not interviewed for the position. Justice Sergon was employed at a time when judges were appointed on the basis of who you knew in government or how much you paid for the job. BACKGROUND The practice was that the Registrar sought the person, then the intelligence agency carried out vetting, and if there was nothing alarming, the person was called and told to report to work. Justice Sergon received a Bachelors of Law degree at the University of Nairobi in 1990 and was admitted to the bar in 1991. He practised as a lawyer until 2002 when he joined the Judiciary as a judge. He was first posted in Mombasa High Court before he was transferred to Bungoma after he survived the Aaron Ringera “radical surgery” of 2003 that kicked out many senior judges. He stayed in Bungoma, a station he describes as very problematic, for two and a half years before he was transferred back to head Mombasa. WORK ETHIC Despite the complaints raised against him during the vetting process, he was described as one of the most efficient judges in the Judiciary. He was said to be astute, intelligent, strong and highly competent. Despite raising complaints against him which painted him as a corrupt and vindictive judge, the Mombasa Law Society commended him for delivering his judgments and rulings in good time. “Normally what I do is when I am transferred from a station to another, I seek for leave, say for a month. I clear the work of that station before reporting to the new station. That is the way I have always done it,” he told the board. BRIBERY But after the Vetting Board found him unsuitable to continue serving as a judge, Justice Sergon filed applications asking the interview panel to disqualify itself and that a new panel be constituted to hear the review application in totality. First, the judge was found unsuitable for receiving a bribe to make a favourable ruling to one party in Mombasa High Court Miscellaneous Civil Application No. 525 of 2002, the Republic versus the Registrar of Societies ex-parte award Oshane and Others. The board further said that he accompanied one of the parties to two banks on the date of the rulings, where allegedly money for the bribe was withdrawn and handed over to him. WITNESS In his defence, Mr Miller argued that the complainant, Mr Ali Mubarak, did not properly identify the judge. Another panel of the board that was interrogating Justice David Onyancha, now retired, Mr Miller argued, had found Mr Mubarak to be an unreliable witness. The second reason for his dismal was that he was guilty of withholding Sh550,000 that was received by his firm on behalf of a client, Loice Ayieko, during his time in private practice. He only acknowledged receiving the cash after the defendant informed Ms Ayieko that they had settled with the lawyer. He defended himself that delayed payment may have been due to questions around the identity of the client and the client’s husband. Another complainant, Yuvinalis Angima, who was then employed by the Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission, complained that Justice Sergon was unduly hostile to him when he appeared for an application for joinder in the handling of a case in Mombasa High Court No. 309 of 2007 (Fermento Investments versus the Kenya Railways). VINDICTIVE Mr Angima complained that the Justice branded the anti-corruption agency as a busybody in open court and later on changed the said documents in his ruling attributing them to the plaintiff’s counsel. Advocate Benedict Kenzi, a Mombasa-based lawyer, who was the first one to raise a complaint against Justice Sergon, accused him of being vindictive. His complaint was in regard to the matter of the High Court Miscellaneous Application 1059 of 2006 (Trans-National Bank of Kenya versus John Muthithi Kamia & Another, and CMCC Mombasa 2963 of 2005). Mr Kenzi was acting for Mr Kamia while the law firm Kibara and Gakuo Advocates represented Trans-National Bank, which the Vetting Board noted did had powerful personalities behind it. In the process of the case, Justice Sergon sentenced Mr Kenzi to 30 days in jail after he accused the advocate of trying to choose a court to adjudicate his matters. He then threw the file in front of a fully packed court and immediately told court orderlies to take the advocate to jail. But the vetting board later overturn its ruling that found him unsuitable, saying it arrived at the decision due to omissions.   Githongo says he will appeal against the High Court decision.