The Banda School, an elite learning institution in Nairobi, has been put on the spot over its failure to adhere to basic hygiene regulations. The National Environment Management Authority (Nema) has since warned that failure by the school to adhere to set regulations will have consequences. Officials from Nema's Nairobi office visited the school and directed the management, led by Mr George Githui, to implement several recommendations. The school, which is situated on Magadi Road, 500 students. Among the concerns raised by Nema is the lack of an environmental impact assessment report which expired on February 21, 2018. EFFLUENT TREATMENT “(An) Effluent treatment plant is in place but [it is] not treating effluent to the set standards and discharging grey and blackish discharge into environment and storm drain on Magadi Road,” reads the notice sent to the school dated May 17. The environmental watchdog is also concerned that water analysis reports do not meet the set standards as laid out in the water quality regulations of 2006. “Evidence of some waste management records in place but some missing (contracts, licences and tracking documents),” reads the report by inspectors Regina Kio and Veronica Maina. The school has since been directed to immediately stop any further processing of waste which leads to discharge into environment. The international school is required to install a properly working effluent treatment plant within 7 days. The school’s management also appeared before Nema on Tuesday. ADDRESS CONCERNS The management is also required to liaise with relevant authorities to address the concerns raised by Nema, failure to which officers at the institution will be prosecuted. “You have a right to appeal to the national environment tribunal if aggrieved by the order,” reads the notice. On Tuesday, Mr Githui said the institution is doing everything possible to implement the Nema directives. Mr Githui said Nema has already inspected the school and held discussions with the management. “We have committed ourselves to do as per the recommendations,” said the manager. The institution is one of the most expensive schools in the country and charges a pupil Sh1.5 million a year.  