Judging by the crashes during the practice sessions of the 2019 Azerbaijan Grand Prix, one would not have been predicting bad luck at the start of the race by thinking that the Safety Car would be kept busy during the race, and that it would come in early. However, that was not to be as everyone was much more careful at the start. Ferrari's Charles Leclerc bucked the trend of those ahead of him who had softs by starting on the mediums from eighth position. The Monegasque made an uncharacteristic error on Saturday during Qualifying Two, crashing into the barriers and forfeiting the chance to get pole even though he had topped the time sheets for the better part of the weekend. Mercedes' Valtteri Bottas had piped his teammate, Lewis Hamilton, to pole by just 0.059 seconds. Azerbaijan was expected to be Ferrari's race but when push came to shove during qualifying, it was Mercedes that signalled the intention to go for a fourth consecutive one-two. Bottas did not have a poor start, but Hamilton's was slightly better than his. This saw the two Silver Arrows head into Turn One with Bottas marginally ahead on the outside lane. They were nerve-wracking moments for Toto Wolff, Mercedes' Team Principal on a circuit in which staying apart is easier said than done. Last year's incident in which Red Bull's Daniel Ricciardo took out his teammate, Max Verstappen, after the two had jostled for positions is still fresh on the minds of many. FINISHED FIFTH SportPesa Racing Point's Sergio Perez seems to have a knack for nailing the Baku circuit and had managed fifth in qualifying. Soon after the start, he got the better of Red Bull's Max Verstappen. On the sixth lap, Verstappen recovered the position and four laps later, saw Leclerc's Ferrari fly past in a move which was executed much more easily by the Frenchman than many had anticipated. Leclerc was clawing back on the leaders and next in line was his illustrious teammate, Sebastian Vettel. With less than a quarter of the race done, Leclerc was already within DRS range of Vettel, a factor which likely came into play as the four-time world champion pitted for fresh tyres. From third, the German re-joined in fifth just ahead of the McLaren of Carlos Sainz. To cover the move by Ferrari, the race leader, Bottas, pitted first, then shortly afterwards followed Hamilton. This put Leclerc into the lead. Towards the halfway mark, Bottas was slashing more than a second from Leclerc on some of the laps. On the 31st lap, the Finn passed the 21-year-old and for the Frenchman, another Silver Arrow was soon in his mirrors followed by his teammate. Further back, Renault's Daniel Ricciardo tried to overtake Toro Rosso's Daniil Kvyat using his trademark late dive. This time, however, it did not work. He had to use the escape route at Turn Three after locking the tyres and impeding Kvyat's attempt to make the left turn. Ricciardo then surprisingly reversed and hit Kvyat's car, a careless mistake for which he has earned a three-place grid penalty in Spain. ENGINE TROUBLE Red Bull's Pierre Gasly got engine trouble on the 39th lap but was able to put his car in a safe zone with nothing more than a Virtual Safety Car being required to clear up the track. Out in front, Bottas stayed well ahead of his teammate, with Vettel third, then Verstappen who had Leclerc 'miles' behind him. Hamilton tried to pressure Bottas towards the end but the Finn did not make any mistake. It seemed that Toto was about to invoke team orders as Hamilton inched closer and closer to his teammate but Bottas held on for a famous win which many felt he was denied last year courtesy of a late puncture when his rear right tyre hit debris. The Finn claimed his fifth career win and with that, has gone top of the drivers' standings, just a point ahead of Hamilton, both having two wins. Perez picked up eight points by finishing sixth for SportPesa Racing Point. Heading into the fifth race of the season, only five points separate Vettel, Verstappen and Leclerc.   Sebastian Vettel, in a Ferrari, came third with the Red Bull of Max Verstappen fourth.