My previous article considered the cases that had been heard by the courts in various countries in the first quarter of the year and marked them for either interesting or bizarre claims by the parties. There have also been some important judgments made in the same period. These judgements not only make far-reaching decisions for the parties in the cases but also have some significant effects on the public generally but also carry value as precedents for future cases. Some of these decisions are welcome and others contentious and even surprising. The US Supreme Court is to me the most hallowed judicial institution in terms of the level of its legal thought and intellectual variety and depth of the judges. Its decisions provide flavour for lawyers far beyond the borders of the United States. But a decision from the US Supreme Court in a judgment delivered on April 1, 2019 left many in distress. LETHAL INJECTION In that case, Mr Russell Buckley, a convict who had been sentenced to death for murder, appealed to the Supreme Court and sought an order to prohibit his being executed by lethal injection. His reason was that he had a congenital disease that causes blood-filled tumours in his head, neck and throat, which could rapture easily. In reliance upon expert evidence, Mr Buckley told the court that if he was subjected to execution by lethal injection, the tumours could burst and cause bleeding, which would block his airways by filling his mouth, choke him and make his final moments before the lethal injection took effect very painful. Mr Buckley instead required the Supreme Court to order that he be executed by a less painful method such as by nitrogen gas. Mr Buckley had exhausted his appeals against the conviction and sentence, and he was not challenging the execution. Rather, he wanted a less painful method of execution in light of his medical condition. JURISPRUDENCE His claim was that the lethal injection would in his case constitute a cruel and inhuman punishment contrary to prohibition against cruel and inhuman punishment in the eighth amendment of the US Constitution. The Supreme Court, by majority of five judges with four dissenting, held that the protection against cruel and inhuman punishment does not guarantee a prisoner a “painless death”. The majority went ahead to dismiss the request for the alternative execution by nitrogen and held that Mr Buckley had not demonstrated to the court that the option would significantly reduce the risk of severe pain. In effect, the majority decision was that it really did not matter how a death sentence was inflicted on a person sentenced to death. Justice Kavanaugh, who was among the majority, even made remarks to the effect that death by firing squad was an alternative method. This decision does not erode the faith that believers have in the US Supreme Court. Justice Sonia Sotomayor was fervent in dissent. She said that the Supreme Court’s jurisprudence needs to be one of care and not dismissiveness. DANCE BARS But the jurisprudence of supreme courts was not all dismissive and lethal. In January, the Supreme of Court of India struck down as unconstitutional several provisions of a law by the State of Maharashtra which sought to regulate dance bars (essentially strip clubs). The state passed a law with stringent conditions which made it very difficult to obtain a licence and operate a dance bar. Among some of the prohibitions was that there should be no obscene dances within the bars. It also sought to regulate the operations of the bars by restricting the giving of tips to the dancers on stage by throwing money at them. The bars also had to instal CCTV cameras to record the performances and further outlawed the serving of alcohol in the bars. Another provision was that no such bar allowed within one-kilometre radius of a school or religious place. MORALITY It was clear that the intention was to address concerns of morality by sections of the administrators of Maharashtra state. The court did not dance with this law. It said: A practice which may not be immoral by societal standards cannot be thrust upon the society as immoral by the state courtesy of its own notion of morality as a means of social control. It struck out the sections requiring CCTV cameras as invasion of privacy and ruled that the one-kilometre radius requirement was impractical and therefore unlawful. On the giving of tips, the court upheld the prohibition of payment of tips to dancers by pelting the dancers but held that the payments could be done in any other way. The rule against serving liquor was also struck down as unreasonably influenced by moralistic overtones that the consumption of alcohol would necessarily lead to misbehaviour by the patrons. The Indian Supreme Court was concerned that the intention of the state was to abolish dance bars through stringent indirect regulations, which would render it impossible for businesses to operate. This, the court said, was something that the law would not allow the authorities to do. DISCLOSURE In South Africa, the Constitutional Court made a decision that seeks to shine a shaft of light in the way the Judicial Service Commission of that country accounts to the citizenry. In April, the court ruled in favour of a litigant who had sued the Judicial Service Commission demanding that the commission’s deliberations on the appointment of judges be made public. In 2012, South Africa’s Judicial Service Commission interviewed a number of persons seeking appointment as judges. The commission then recommended some of the candidates for appointment and not others. The litigant then sought disclosure of the commission’s deliberations leading to the decision to recommend the appointments. The commission declined to provide the record of its deliberations and the litigant filed the suit to force disclosure. The constitutional court held that a blanket ban against disclosure of the deliberations of a public body could not be justified in a constitutional democracy. DEFAMATION This means that the decision-making process of the commission will be open to public scrutiny — a gain for democracy and for the public’s right to information. The UK Supreme Court came up for me with the most interesting case so far regarding social media. This was a defamation case between a man and his former wife. Following the end of their marriage, Mr Ronald Stocker formed a relationship with another woman. In December 2012, his former wife made a statement on social media platform Facebook to her former husband’s girlfriend that he had “tried to strangle her”. Mr Stocker filed a suit against his former wife that this statement meant that he had tried to kill her. The legal test as to whether a statement is defamatory is the meaning that an ordinary reader of the statement would make of the words. The judge who heard this case in the high court relied on the meaning of the word “strangle” as defined in a dictionary, and concluded that an ordinary reader would have understood the statement to mean that Mr Stocker had tried to constrict his wife’s neck and therefore that he had tried to kill her. He dismissed Mrs Stocker’s denial that the meaning did not mean that Mr Stocker had wanted to kill her. SOCIAL MEDIA The UK Supreme Court stated that the use of the dictionary meaning of “strangle” was not the correct approach. They said that the social media user is different from the traditional reader of information from a newspaper. The judges said that the readers of social media tend to scroll through very quickly and do not pause to reflect. They added that the social media reader would not ponder on the meaning of words because their reaction to most postings on social media are impressionable and fleeting. They, therefore, held that Mrs Stocker’s post was not defamatory. The judges seemed to be appreciating that social media audiences are aware that the platforms give room for latitude in the use of words and are platforms for lighter, perhaps even less thoughtful, communication. VAGRANTS If the United States Supreme Court was disheartening in Mr Buckley’s case, the most encouraging was also from the United States. The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit made a far-reaching and pro-people decision that is my best decision of the year so far. It held that an anti-vagrancy law, which prohibited homeless people from sleeping on the streets, is unconstitutional. The court said: “People with no place to live will sleep outside if they have no alternative.” The judges then said that the prosecution and punishment of homeless people for sleeping on the streets because they have no homes is a cruel punishment, which should not be allowed to stand. The reasoning for the judges was simple and erudite: criminal laws are intended to punish actions or inactions by people. Homelessness is a status, not an action, on the part of the poor and it ought not be punished or criminalised. The writer is Head of Legal at Nation Media Group  