OPPO officially launched its new addition of the F-Series Smartphones F11 and F11 Pro 10 days ago. In an era where smartphones are all starting to look similar from design, size, display, colour to Apps set-up, it’s the little touches that can go a long way in making a given device stand out. The camera is probably the most eye-catching feature of the F11 Pro and this is what distinguishes it from the F11. The pop-up mechanism and improved megapixels is something to smile about. ULTRA NIGHT MODEThe front camera of the F11 Pro has a 16MP while the primary rear camera is a 48MP shooter paired with a 5MP depth sensor. The rear camera also has an Ultra Night Mode for improved low light performance especially during the night.By default, the rear camera is set to 12MP but you can adjust it to 48MP. However, you will have to lose on some important features namely the zoom, HDR (High Dynamic range and AI Scene recognition (a technology which quickly and automatically recognise what is in a scene.)An interesting observation is that, despite having the 48MP, shooting at 12MP is much more impressive due to the camera’s ability to leverage HDR and AI Scene recognition for better colour and detail. Nevertheless, you are assured of a higher resolution and sharper images. With the battery life becoming one of the most critical considerations for most smartphone purchasers, the F11 series also comes with a battery capacity of 4,000mAh. This is enough to last you a day with gaming, mailing, or use of social media. For a heavy user, especially a gaming addict, perhaps this won’t suit you and may need a much larger battery capacity like the Lenovo P2 that boost of 5,100mAh. INTERESTING ASPECTAnother interesting aspect of the F11 series would be that the manufacturer made it possible to combine software and hardware upgrades to improve battery life.On the performance, Oppo F11Pro is much improved thanks to its latest Helio P70 processor compared to the previous P60 generation. This makes it quick to load Apps, navigate through the interface, gaming without stuttering or and multi-tasking. F11Pro also runs on the latest version of Android 9.0 Pie. The costs are relatively fair with F11Pro 6G BRAM +128GB going for Sh39, 999 and the F11 6GB RAM +64GB, priced at Sh29, 999. However, the F11 series storage capacity doesn’t come with too many bells and whistles. The only options you have are the 64GB and 128 GB as there is no micro SD for expandability. Another setback is that, for some reason, OPPO opted for a micro-USB port instead of the much advanced USB-C which most major brands are shifting to. The F11Pro is an excellent option in the market but it’s not the most powerful device in terms of raw specification.  