Little-known Godfrey Osotsi sprang into the public limelight ahead of the 2017 General Election when the Amani National Congress (ANC) party was formed to accommodate politician Musalia Mudavadi after he unceremoniously left the United Democratic Forum (UDF). Mr Mudavadi vied for the presidency on a UDF ticket in 2013. At the time ANC was being formed, some 13 parties under the Jubilee Alliance were folding up to form one party, and Mr Osotsi took the opportunity to recruit those who fell by the wayside. He was named interim secretary-general, with Mr Mudavadi as the party leader, and embarked on a massive membership recruitment. Mr Osotsi claims he is the one who recruited Mr Mudavadi into ANC and also secured the name of the National Super Alliance (Nasa) with the Registrar of Political Parties. "When 13 parties were being collapsed to form Jubilee, UDF was one of the parties that was dissolved. Mudavadi had no party at the time and I invited him into ANC," Mr Osotsi said in Vihiga recently. ACCOMPLISHMENTS Other leaders he claims he recruited from UDF are MPs Alfred Agoi (Sabatia), Ayub Savula (Lugari), John Bunyasi (Nambale), Alfred Sambu (Webuye East) and Vihiga Senator George Khaniri. After the 2017 General Election, ANC nominated Mr Osotsi to the National Assembly where he is serving in key parliamentary committees that include House Business Committee and the Liaison Committee. His stint in Parliament paints a picture of a vocal politician who has since sponsored some bills, motions and policies. He is credited for the enactment of a sports law and a motion compelling the national government to set up ICT hubs in each of the 290 constituencies. He intends to vie for the Vihiga senatorial seat in 2022, but the latest political developments could dent his fledgling political ambitions. MISCONDUCT The ANC has successfully petitioned the Registrar of Political Parties to delist him from the party register, effectively paving way for his removal from the National Assembly as an MP. Mr Osotsi was expelled from the party by a Special National Executive Council in March following the adoption of the report by the party’s disciplinary committee. He has been accused of misusing party funds when he served as secretary-general in addition to disrespecting the party leadership and structures. The embattled MP however says his former party did not have any funds and thus he could not misappropriate any as alleged. He claims he is being fought for supporting the handshake, attending ODM leader Raila Odinga's mock swearing-in and opposing the proposed merger between ANC and Ford Kenya. EXPULSION On Tuesday, Registrar of Political Parties Anne Nderitu told the Nation that the right procedure was followed in removing Mr Osotsi from the ANC register. "Once you confirm that the right process was followed, you act. That is what we are required to do so that the rights of an individual or the party constitution are not violated," Ms Nderitu said. On Tuesday, Mr Osotsi said he has not received official communication, either from the registrar or the party. “I have seen the letter. Someone forwarded it to me. The Registrar of Political Parties is yet to formally communicate to me,” Mr Osotsi told the Nation on Tuesday. He said he was studying the letter before determining his next move. Before this, Mr Osotsi had lost an appeal against his removal as secretary-general. He is again considering challenging the decision to delist him. On Sunday, the embattled lawmaker had told reporters that ANC had turned down his request for dialogue on grounds that the window for truce had been closed. He had said his team of lawyers were ready for any eventuality.  