More than 3,265 teachers trainees kicked out of training colleges over lower entry grade will be compensated for three terms that they have been in college, the Ministry of Education has said. Education Principal Secretary Bellio Kipsang on Tuesday told National Assembly’s Education committee that the government will ensure that the students do not suffer loss. “We are aware of the unfortunate situation that this students have found themselves in, we will all we can to ensure that this students do not suffer loss,” said Dr Kipsang. LOW GRADE He said, the students have been affected following an agreement between the Ministry of Education and the Teachers service Commission (TSC) to withdraw a circular that had lowered the teaching college grades to C- for diploma and D+ for certificate. The trainees moved to court early Tuesday challenging the decision with the hearing of the case set for May 9. The affected students are from Turkana, Samburu, Wajir, Marsabit, Isiolo, Mandera, Garissa, Lamu, Tana River, West Pokot, Kwale, Kilifi and Taita Taveta counties. Others are; Homa Bay, Narok, Baringo and Kajiado. Mr Abdishukri Adan Muhume, a resident of northern Kenya to sue all the 27 TTCs, the Education ministry and the Attorney-General on behalf of the more than 3,000 affected learners. Mr Muhumed argues that the discontinuation is unfair to the trainees. “Without any colour of right nor following due process, the respondents informally informed or caused to be informally informed the teacher trainees that their training has been discontinued,” said Mr Muhumed in a case filed through Nairobi-based lawyer Stephen Mogaka. “The decision, threat and/or announcement of the said discontinuance of the commenced teacher training is arbitrary, capricious and untenable,” he adds. “The arid and semi-arid region suffers acute shortage of teachers which impedes children’s access to and realisation of their fundamental right to education,” argued Mr Muhumed in the court documents. “The action to discontinue the training [for] the teachers violated Article 47 of the Constitution and Sections 4, 5 and 6 of the Fair Administrative Action Act,” he added. However, TSC made an announcement through local dailies on Tuesday which indicated that the minimum KCSE grade for training as a primary school teacher is a C. TCS CEO Nancy Macharia added that those wishing to train in early childhood development education must have a D+ and above, those joining diploma colleges must have a C+ and those going for a bachelor’s degree must attain at least a C+. “For one to be registered, one will be required to have met the minimum entry grades to teacher training institutions,” said Mrs Macharia.   Former CS Amina Mohamed lowered marks to benefit minority, marginalised groups.