Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, who is also the leader of Maendeleo Chap Chap party, has launched a campaign against introduction of new taxes in the country, saying Kenyans are tired. Dr Mutua is instead pushing for a reduction of taxes and a stoppage of new taxation in the coming budget. Speaking in Mombasa on Thursday after a fishing expedition with a youth group as part of his “Tumechoka” campaigns, Dr Mutua said Kenyans are already burdened by taxation and the rising cost of living. “As we study the estimates presented by the national government, I call for a stoppage of introduction of new taxes that will burden the already suffering Kenyans,” Dr Mutua said.   PRESIDENCY The Machakos governor has announced that he will vie for the presidency in 2022 on Maendeleo Chap Chap ticket and hopes to use his development record, youthfulness and anti-corruption crusade to win the seat. During the 2017 elections, his party won various seats across the country. The governor survived Wiper Party onslaught in Ukambani to win a second term in office. In 2014, Dr Mutua parted ways with Wiper citing ideological differences and embarked on building his new political vehicle which was in 2017 ranked the third largest party in the country in terms of candidates seeking different elective seats. On Thursday, he said there should be no new taxes across the board in this year’s budget.   REDUCE TAXES “Essential commodities and activities such as food and transportation, cost of fuel and cost of power should actually be reduced and not taxed further because Kenyans are tired,” Dr Mutua said.National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich has given Parliament his proposals for the 2019/2020 financial year. The government plans to spend at least Sh450.9 billion to fund President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda in the next financial year. The allocation is about 16 percent of the Sh2.7 trillion budget that the country plans to spend if approved by the National Assembly. While speaking in Mombasa, Dr Mutua said the budget presented has a trillion shillings deficit and that the national government should find better ways of balancing it instead of taxing Kenyans.  STOP WASTAGE “The deficit should not be plugged by new taxes but by other creative ways such as reigning in on wastage, reducing exaggerated costs of projects, ensuring fast completion of projects, efficient service delivery and stopping the massive theft of public funds,” Dr Mutua said. Speaking on his fishing experience in Mombasa, Dr Mutua said it was a life changing experience. “It is hard work and we need to support our fishermen all over the country. We need to ensure that they can feed their families, and promote them to increase their yield so that we do not import fish,” Dr Mutua said. He added that it is unfair to tax Kenyans such as fishermen heavily then the money is stolen through corruption so that Kenyans are taxed some more. He said Kenyans are yearning for rapid development.  