If you walk into any medical facility in Kenya, would you be in a position to tell what grade it is and what kind of services it should offer? Most Kenyans, when asked these questions, do not have ready answers. The Nation took to the streets to find out from citizens if they knew what services they should expect from various hospitals and how these facilities are classified. All Ms Mercy Wambui knows is that health centres are the lowest class in the health facilities ratings with level six hospitals at the top. “I know that those at the community level are health centres and the type of Kenyatta National Hospital are level six hospitals which handle complicated cases,” she says. Others like Mr Njoroge Peter were not even aware that there are other levels of hospitals save for health centres and the national referral hospital. “I know when I am feeling a headache, I go to health centres and get drugs for my headache. I have never known the difference between a level two, three or four in this country. I only know of one referral hospital in the country which is Kenyatta National Hospital,” he said. HOSPITALS CLASSIFICATION The Kenya Medical and Practitioners and Dentists Board is in charge of the classification of medical facilities in the country. The health stations range from Level 2 to Level 6, according to the KMPD chief executive Mr Daniel Yumbya. This classification is based on the services, infrastructure, and human resource attending to patients. LEVEL 2    The hospitals in this category are health centres, dispensaries, medical and dental clinics, eye and Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) clinics. Dispensaries serve up to 10,000 patients and are managed by two general clinical officers assisted by six registered community health nurses and a pharmaceutical technologist. For recordkeeping, the facility must employ at least two clerks and a health records information management officer. Other workers are two medical laboratory technologists, a nutritionist and a dietician. Services offered are outpatient, emergency maternity, basic laboratory, and minor surgical procedures. It is also at the dispensary that food quality, safety and fortification advocacy, school health programmes or outreach and population management services are done. LEVEL 3 The facility serves up to 30,000 patients and general and specialised clinical officers and nurses. It is managed by either the government, or A humanitarian organisation, and licenced to a faith-based organisation or community or registered organisation such as a school or company. The hospital offers all services available at a level 2 station as well as radiological and imaging, maternity for normal deliveries, antenatal care, immunisation and family planning. LEVEL 4    Has more comprehensive services and specialised staff than a level 3 hospital. Emergency, general and specialised operations are handled at the facility. Provides a highly active anti-retroviral therapy (HAART), antiretroviral (ARV) prophylaxis for children born of HIV-positive mothers, male circumcision, pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) management, and screening for animal transmitted conditions. The facility also screen for and examines cervical, breast and prostate cancers, vaccination for yellow fever, tetanus, hepatitis B and rabies, management of surgical and medical and advanced life support, management of high-risk pregnancies and obstetric complications, pre-term labour and caesarean sections. LEVEL 5 The services offered are similar to level 4 except for the number of patients, which is higher. A level 5 hospital can handle more than 250 patients per day as well as specialised clinics. The facility also offers specialised therapy services including radiotherapy, chemotherapy and renal dialysis, sterile production unit services, internship training, forensic pathology services, and 24-hour pharmacy services. The hospital should be built on at least ten acres of land or 5,000 square metres. It should have a 500-bed capacity with ICU and HDU having 12 beds each. There should be an inpatient and outpatient pharmacy, burns unit and a staff quarters for at least eight persons on duty. A medical superintendent should lead a team of at least 15 medical officers, seven anaesthesiologists, two cardiologists, four general surgeons and two orthopaedic surgeons. The team should also include a critical care physician, two ENT surgeons, three gynaecologists, four oncologists, and two palliative care specialists. The hospital should employ at least 90 clinical officers, 1,118 nurses with specialists spread across different departments, 11 pharmacists (general, clinical, oncology pharmacists) and 10 pharmaceutical technologists. One mammographer, three CT scan or MRI radiographer, two human resource management officers, 50 medical laboratory technologists, four cateresses, 20 cooks, 15 drivers, 60 support staff, 10 mortuary attendants, and 16 security officers should also form part of the staff. LEVEL 6 A Level 6 hospital offers all specialised services exclusively or a group of specialised services, among others, radiology, oncology, ophthalmology, dental and renal. Outpatient department with specialised clinics should include ten triage rooms, twenty consultation rooms, one nursing station, two injection rooms, one minor theatre per specialised surgical department and a laboratory. There should be a delivery room with six delivery couches, antenatal department and a new-born unit with 20 incubators and 10 HDU cots. It should have an operating theatre bed each for general, maternity, orthopaedic, paediatric, ENT, ophthalmology, dental, neurosurgery, cardiothoracic, and plastic surgery. The hospital should be manned by a chief executive officer (CEO) assisted by at least 100 medical officers, 30 anaesthesiologists, at least 64 surgeons in different departments, 20 oncologists, 10 cardiologists, and 20 gynaecologists. Other employees are 1,822 specialised nurses, 120 pharmacy specialists (pharmacists, pharmaceutical technologists and plaster technologists), 25 general radiographers, three mammographers, three CT scan or MRI radiographer, four human resource management officers, 50 scientific medical laboratory specialists, five cateresses, 20 cooks, 15 drivers, 100 support staff, 10 mortuary attendants and 16 security officers.  