Police in Kaloleni, Kilifi County, have raised concern about the resurgence of the Mombasa Republican Council following a raid at a training camp. Kaloleni divisional police commander (OCPD) Kennedy Osando told the Nation that they received information on May 9 about 60 youths who had converged inside Kaya Jibana Forest in Mulola. "We believe they gathered for preparations to commit a crime. They were all armed with crude weapons and well-sharpened machetes," "Some were still sharpening the pangas while others danced to music, signs of high spirits." CRUDE WEAPONS Police challenged the youths to surrender but they defied the order, so they opened fire and charged towards them in an attempt to make arrests. "They dashed into the forest leaving behind 10 sharp machetes. Since it was dark we could not do patrol clearance," Mr Osando said. "We withdrew and very early on Friday (May 10), we went back to the scene and cleared it. We gathered some of the crude weapons, machetes, bows and arrows that had been left behind," the OCPD added. He said they arrested two of the youths and an old man they believed was their witch doctor. "These people were prepared; they were in a training camp, ready to commit crimes against humanity."   'STERN WARNING' Mr Osando appealed to the public to report any persons seeking treatment for gunshot wounds as some of the youths were likely shot in the process of fleeing. "Kindly let us know if there are individuals seeking treatment in private hospitals or homes," he said, and also asked for reports on burials without death certificates. The OCPD warned MRC operatives, their sympathisers and those harbouring them that they will be arrested and punished. "We will not relent. We are sounding a stern warning. Desist from illegal activities or get ready to face the law."   MANHUNT ON Mr Osando further urged Kaya elders not to permit illegal activities such as trainings and oath-taking. "We will catch up with you if you allow such to continue. From what we saw they have resurfaced, but we will not allow them to endeavour in their quest," he said. He noted that they dismantled the training camp and started investigations that will lead to more arrests, as they also found a piece of paper with the names of members and their contributions. Mr Osando said the three who were arrested will be arraigned on Monday.  