Gor Mahia on Wednesday retained the SportPesa Premier League for the third successive year after second-placed Bandari were held to a barren draw by Mathare United at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani. The stalemate at Kasarani meant that Bandari, who started the day eight points off the top, cannot leapfrog the champions even if K'Ogalo lose their three remaining matches. Gor were held to a 1-1 draw by visiting Vihiga United at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos, in the late kick-off tied that started at 4.15pm. Irrespective of the outcome, K'Ogalo were already assured of being crowned Kenyan champions for a record-extending 18th time. At Kasarani, the Slum Boys will feel hard done by the result having coasted to a bright start that saw them rattle the visitors’ post twice. In the first minute, Clifford Alwanga met Cliff Nyakeya’s cross with a solid header that stung Farouk Shikalo’s palms and came off the bar. Then moments later, Alwanga’s strike partner Chris Ochieng’ swept home a low cross from James Kinyanjui but his effort cannoned off the left upright. A moment of brilliance from William Wadri freed Yema Mwana clean through in stoppage time of the opening half but Allan Owiny made a brilliant one-handed save to deny the Congolese forward. The Ugandan shot stopper was at his brilliant best just after the restart to prevent the hosts from falling behind. Duncan Otewa found Shaban Kenga with a cross field pass from the right and the winger got his control right before skipping past two yellow shirts. However, Owiny pulled a top drawer save to deny him from close range. Francis Kimanzi summoned the tricky feet of Tyson Otieno from the bench and the scales swung in favour of his side. A tense final quarter ensued but still the breakthrough proved elusive as the Dockers led by Felly Mulumba defended gallantly. Mwana should have sealed the game for his side against the run of play after a counter attacking move left him one on one with Owiny but his finish went awfully wide. The draw now confirms Gor Mahia as champions with Bandari needing only a win to secure second place.  