Mercy has worked as a HR officer and administrator at the Judiciary for 14 years. When the Supreme Court was established in 2011, she became the first administrator at the country’s apex court. Her roles include coordinating various management development programmes and training for staff.  What are your proudest professional milestones so far? At the inception of the Supreme Court in 2011, I was charged with putting together a support team to work at the new facility. I was also responsible for designing administrative structures and coordinating systems and programmes to make the court operational and its support function efficient and effective. The finest moments for me were the inaugural Supreme Court sitting and the hearing and determination of the first presidential petitions in 2017. This year, I co-authored the State of the Judiciary and the Administration of Justice Annual Report (SOJAR) that assessed the achievements of tribunals in Kenya.  How different is career growth in public service from the private sector? Career growth and salary increment in government jobs are often capped and quite slow compared to the private sector. This is because providing services to citizens using taxpayer’s money as the primary source of revenue is the core objective of the government. Private organisations fundamentally exist to make profits, as such, promotions and salary increments are influenced by the performance of an individual and the organisation in general. The private sector also employs a fast-paced approach to talent search and development for better performance to stay afloat in the competitive business environment. That said, there are pros and cons of working in both sectors. One is at liberty though to switch to either side to meet certain career objectives and preferences which tend to be distinct at different stages of one’s career.  Any trends in human resources that young professionals who wish to pursue this career should keep tabs on? The demographic of today’s workforce requires a human-centric approach. As a people manager, you must be a good communicator who embraces HR policies and practices that value, recognise and respect the dignity of employees. Understand the organisation’s strategic direction to be able to provide leadership that influences individuals and teams to achieve their goals and objectives. To succeed, you must also be innovative, creative and agile to provide the organisation with solutions that suit environmental dynamics and to manage change. Endeavour to possess skills in HR analytics and metrics as a tool to measure the contribution of the HR function to an organisation’s success.  Employers claim that graduates lack hands-on experience whereas training institutions often decry lack of capacity to offer practical skills. Where does this impasse leave graduates? Being in possession of the right academic qualification will only get you past the shortlist stage, and just as far. Graduates must be conscious of the fact that clinching that job requires you to demonstrate your organisational skills, abilities to innovate and to solve problems. Most of these aptitudes that employers require from recruits are acquired in school, during internship engagements and through volunteer work. Identify your strengths and highlight them in your résumé. Take short courses, study online, research and attend seminars as a deliberate effort to bridge this skills gap.  A report by AON in 2018 shows that 35 percent of employees globally are actively disengaged. What are the common triggers of employee detachment? Research shows that the majority of employees do not leave their jobs, they leave their bosses because of poor management style. When a professional feels that the organisation they work for does not offer clear opportunities for growth, they are likely to get detached. Lack of reward and recognition schemes for employees could also erode passion. Organisations must empower their managers to inspire, motivate and respect employees. They must also design and implement fair schemes for employee recognition and reward to keep their employees upbeat. It is also critical to provide opportunities for career growth and advancement.  If you were a job seeker today, what would you do differently based on your current experience? I would set out an action plan that accommodates both digital and traditional recruitment methods. I would write a spruce résumé and covering letter, customised to suit different jobs. Unlike before, I would make it a priority to have a mentor close by to guide and account on my progress during the process. I would also read and research widely to keep abreast of the job market and professional trends. While at it, I would make sure to actively and exhaustively use all my networks.  As an administrator, do you think organisations are deliberate in their effort to groom young professionals for leadership roles? The human resource function in an organisation is responsible for identifying and developing leaders for succession planning and management. There are substantial efforts and initiatives by some learning institutions, private and community-based organisations and professional bodies to nurture leadership in young professionals. This is done through continuous learning and development programmes which double up as networking forums. Young African Leadership Initiative (YALI), Akili Dada and the mentorship programme by Corporate Staffing are some of the projects designed to groom a generation of leaders.  What holds back these efforts? Young people below 35 years constitute more than 60 percent of Africa’s population, according to statistics. This level of need is vast and therefore poses a capacity problem. Professionals should come together and discuss ways to increase opportunities as a way of giving back to their communities.  Recommend a book to young professionals with leadership ambitions… Read Robin Sharma’s The Leader Who Had No Title. This book offers exciting insights into harnessing the power to lead, what you do, the role in your organisation and circumstances in your life notwithstanding. Before you blame others for what is ineffective, ask yourself what your contributions are. As a young person, you must believe in yourself and start to influence your space.  How has your social life boosted your professional growth? I have a supportive family and circle of close friends who constantly encourage and support me. I value the balance between my career and my social life. As such, I plan and manage my time and activities efficiently such that I have enough for family and friends, work, to build relationships and for rest. For the sake of my family though, I have had to suspend my doctorate studies.   'This is a demanding job because sound is like an art.'