Twelve Jubilee legislators have accused ODM leader Raila Odinga of trying to derail Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential ambitions. The MPs, who promised to back Dr Ruto, alleged that Mr Odinga was out to cause division in Jubilee Party. SUPPORT Speaking at Kigari Teachers Training College in Embu County during a thanksgiving ceremony for Mr Manyatta lawmaker, Mr John Muchiri on Sunday, the politicians assured the DP, who was also in attendance, that they will not forsake him. The MPs, Muriuki Njagagua (Mbeere North), Geoffrey King'ang'i (Mbeere South), Eric Muchangi (Runyenjes), Alice Wahome (Kandara), Gabriel Kago Walydia (Githunguri), Kimani Ichung'wa (Kikuyu), Gichohi Mwangi (Nyeri), George Manyara (Tharaka Nthi), Jane Wanjuki (Embu), Cicily Mbarire (nominated) and Mburi Wa Mpuri (East Africa Legislation Assembly), said Dr Ruto was the best leader for the presidency and that he had their blessings. COVENANT Embu Senator Mr Njeru Ndwiga urged Dr Ruto not to give up on his presidential ambitions. “Dr Ruto will be the next Head of State whether Mr Odinga likes it or not,” said Ms Wahome. The lawmakers alleged that there was a binding covenant between President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy. "The President agreed that Dr Ruto will succeed him after he completes his two terms in office. The Head of State has not changed his mind and the agreement remains,” said Mr Muchangi. The MPs described Dr Ruto as a selfless and hardworking leader who deserves to be rewarded. “He (Dr Ruto) has been crisscrossing the country initiating development projects, he can make a good president,” said Mr Ichung'wa. DEVELOPMENT Mr Mpuri told off Mr Odinga saying he will never be Kenya’s president. “Mr Odinga should forget the presidency and go home," said Mr Mpuri. Dr Ruto swore to continue participating in development in churches despite constant attacks by his critics. "No one is forced to develop churches and those who do not want to do so should live me alone," the DP said. He criticised Mr Odinga for basing his war on corruption on propaganda and falsehoods instead of facts. "If Mr Odinga has evidence on who has stolen public funds he should furnish the police with it,” he said. CORRUPTION The DP reminded the ODM leader that offices of Directorate of Criminal Investigations, Director of Public Prosecutions and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission are well funded by the government and should be allowed to do their job of fighting corruption. The Embu MPs asked Dr Ruto to pick National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi as his running mate in 2022. "We are urging to consider choosing one of our own as your running mate," said Ms Mbarire.   MPs have questioned the failure by President Kenyatta to convene a Parliamentary Group meeting.