The Teachers Service Commission has transferred at least nine non-local teachers from two schools in Mandera. The commission moved the teachers from Libehia and Sarohindi primary schools in Mandera East, to Khalalio, Barwaqo, Buruburu and Mandera township primary schools following recent attacks by Al Shabaab militants. TEMPORARY MEASURE “We took the move after Hareri Hosle village was attacked last week,” said Mr Yusuf Abdullahi, County TSC boss. Mr Abdullahi said that Hareri Hosle neighbours the affected villages where the teachers were serving. He, however, said this was a temporary measure. “This is a temporary measure as the situation is being monitored by security officers,” he said. The move, however, did not go well with clan elders who accused the TSC officials of denying the local children of their constitutional right. “The move to withdraw teachers from our schools is uncalled for and it denies our children their right to education,” said Libehia Ward Representative Farah Abdinoor BORDER Mr Abdinoor argued that Libehia was safe and far away from the insecure Kenya –Somalia border. “The local community has lived with these teachers for many years and their security is assured. We want them back so that learning can go on uninterrupted,” he said. Mr Abdinoor challenged the national government to beef up security in every corner of the country. “The national government has the responsibility to ensure our security, it should deploy more officers to Libehia,” he said. The village is manned by less than five police reservists after closure of the only Administration Police camp in 2013. THREE TEACHERS The elders expressed fears that the move to withdraw teachers would also affect the health sector. “After teachers have been withdrawn, soon the medical staff from local health facilities will follow suit,” said an elder who requested not to be named. Libehia Primary School now has three teachers with to handle a population of 450 pupils. “We shall only consider posting teachers to the areas once we are assured of their security,” said the TSC boss.   Police say the attackers were on a mission to restock food for Ramadhan.