Unrestricted access to online services and cashless payments are among factors that have earned Kenya ranking as the best in Africa in offering a good digital life for expats. In the latest Expat Insider report released by InterNations, Kenya was ranked 31st among 68 countries surveyed, ahead of South Africa (49), Morocco (58), Uganda (59) and Egypt (69). The report says that nine out of 10 expats in the country (89 percent) are happy with unrestricted access to online services, a rate that is nine percentage points above the global average. “Making cashless payments in Kenya also seems to be very easy (94 percent positive ratings compared to 78 percent globally),” reads part of the report released on Wednesday. MOBILE NUMBERS The report ranks Kenya fifth in the whole world in the ease of getting a local mobile phone number, behind Myanmar, New Zealand, Israel and Estonia. Close to every expat in the country - 95 percent, compared to 86 percent globally - says the process is easy. Only two percent say they found the process difficult, against a global average of seven percent. South Africa ranks among the bottom 10 countries worldwide in the ease of getting a local mobile phone number (59), with 12 percent of expats saying the process was difficult. The report further states that the country does not fare much better when it comes to the availability of government or administration services online, ranking 58 out of 68 countries worldwide. UGANDA TRAILING Uganda ranks among the worst countries in the world in offering a good digital life. In access to high-speed internet at home, the country took position 65 out of 68, and in paying without cash it took position 61. The report further states that close to two in five expats in Uganda (39 percent) are unsatisfied with home internet access, compared to 16 percent globally. A a third (33 percent) rate cashless payment opportunities negatively, compared to 13 percent globally. “Twelve percent say it is very difficult to pay without cash in Uganda; only five other countries worldwide have higher percentages in this regard (Germany, Argentina, Egypt, Japan, and Myanmar),” the report indicates. BEST WORLDWIDE The report listed the top 10 countries globally as Estonia (1), Finland (2), Norway (3), Denmark (4), New Zealand (5), Israel (6), Canada (7), Singapore (8), Netherland (9) and the United States of America (USA) (10). Estonia was ranked the best in offering a good digital life abroad for its unrestricted access to social media and administrative or government services. “Ninety six percent of expats judge access to online services favourably versus 80 percent globally, with 86 percent saying it could not be any better , versus 58 percent globally,” states the report. Another 94 percent are impressed with the availability of administrative or government services online, compared to 55 percent globally. Seventy gave this the best possible rating compared to 23 percent globally. The survey says the bottom 10 countries in terms of digital life are Myanmar (68), China (67), Egypt (66), India (65), Philippines (64), Saudi Arabia (63), Indonesia (62), Peru (61), Turkey (60) and Uganda (59). NATIONALITIES The survey involved interviews with at least 75 participants per destination. In 2018, 68 countries met this requirement, with a total of 18,135 expatriates taking part in the survey, representing 178 nationalities living in 187 countries or territories. The Digital Life Abroad Report is an addition to the annually published Expat Insider survey by InterNations. The topical report is based on the Digital Life subcategory, which was added to the Expat Insider survey for the first time in 2018. The subcategory is part of the Quality of Life Index, which covers five other subcategories including leisure options, health and wellbeing, and travel and transportation.  