Nyandarua Woman Representative Faith Gitau has rubbished demands by the county's MCAs for a leaders’ meeting to discuss how to visit President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House, Nairobi. Speaking in Ol Kalou town when she distributed bursary cheques to orphans and the disabled, Ms Gitau dismissed the MCAs demand, saying President Uhuru Kenyatta is delivering on promises he made to Nyandarua people. Last week, the MCAs for a second time renewed their demand for a retreat with the executive through an emergency motion by nominated MCA Wanjiku Muhoho. ULTIMATUM During the debate, the MCAs gave the executive a 10-day ultimatum to convene a leaders’ meeting to be attended by all MCAs, the governor and the seven MPs. The purpose of the retreat was to discuss an appointment with President Kenyatta. The proposed State House visit is intended to discuss the development agenda for Nyandarua and job appointments. In a March, a similar demand was made through a similar motion sponsored by Wanjohi Ward MCA Isaac Kung’u, where the MCAs resolved to boycott assembly sittings until their demands are met. PROJECTS But Ms Gitau said President Kenyatta is aware of what is happening in Nyandarua and that various national government development projects are ongoing. “We do not have to visit the President. He will personally visit the county to launch development projects that he has initiated once they are complete. The five MPs from the region and myself are the President’s foot soldiers and we are working day and night to ensure the projects are on course. We are in constant communication with his office as the MPs,” said Ms Gitau. On government appointments, Ms Gitau said Nyandarua has not been left behind as several local professionals have in the recent past been appointed into lucrative positions. WELL-REPRESENTED “The president has a list of the people he wants to appoint or nominate in various positions. Nyandarua is well-represented in the list and the appointments will gradually be done,” said Ms Gitau. On the Tanga Tanga and Kieleweke politics, Ms Gitau dismissed claims that DP William Ruto's team is fighting or frustrating the President. She also denied claims that those in the deputy president's camp have been isolated by President Kenyatta's administration. “Claims that their side (Kieleweke) got more appointments in recent appointments is just propaganda. Today I am here issuing cheques to the disadvantaged children and persons; this is money from the national government. I am representing the President by issuing the money,” said the woman rep. He termed Kieleweke team’s claims that Tanga Tanga are engaging in early campaigns for the 2022 elections as hypocrisy, saying they too are in churches every Sunday contributing money and playing politics.  