For a long time, informal self-help groups, popularly known as “chamas”, have been associated with women. Usually, a group of friends get together and pool resources with a particular aim. It could be to acquire property, buy household stuff or have a revolving fund known as a merry-go-round. But that was then. Now, having witnessed just what such informal groups can achieve, more and more men are coming together and forming self-help groups with investment in mind. And not just men who are employed or doing business. In December 2017, Mr Peter Mutinda, a fourth year student at the University of Nairobi’s Upper Kabete campus, was selling shoes at one of the women’s hostels when he bumped into Mr Enoch Koech, also in his final year at the university. He, too, was engaged in a similar business. They got talking, and by the time they each went their separate ways, the two had agreed to go into business together, convinced that their business would do better if they pooled resources and put their heads together. EXPANSION In the next few weeks, they brought on board four other students, also in the shoe-selling business, and in January 2018 they joined hands with four others and started a chama, which they named Main Pioneers. “When we held our first meeting, we realised that we had a number of things in common, one of them being that we come from humble backgrounds. Most of us are engaged in this part-time job to support ourselves since our parents could not afford to put us through college,” explains Mr Mutinda, the group’s chairperson, and also the chairperson of the University of Nairobi Students Association, College of Agriculture and Veterinary services. Two months later, six more students joined the chama, bringing their number to 12. “We figured that by coming together we would be able to expand the business and expand our customer base and go beyond selling to students.” They started by making a Sh500 monthly contribution each for six months. By June last year, they had managed to save Sh36,000, which they used as seed capital for their business. PRODUCTIVITY Having achieved the first goal of pooling resources, the team drew up a strategy to ensure that they succeeded. The strategy involved members taking up specific roles. So, they divided themselves into groups and took up roles in marketing, logistics and delivery. The model worked. The business is flourishing, they say. They sell at Jumia Kenya, an online shopping out, as well as on their Facebook page, ONLINE STORE COLLECTION. Every month, each member earns a “salary”, which enables them to pay part of their school fees and meet various expenses such as rent. “Part of the profit goes to a kitty from which we draw in case one of us needs help, for instance, to clear school fees arrears. The money is loaned to the member interest-free,” Mr Mutinda says. LOAN When Mr Mutinda was campaigning during the students’ elections, the chama loaned him Sh100,000, which he is still repaying. Besides growing their business and helping one another meet their needs, they also engage in philanthropy. They occasionally partner with fellow students and visit children’s homes to donate new shoes. “Had we not come together, most probably we would still be struggling individually. But now we can even support our siblings or parents if need be,” says Mr Mutinda.  