The government has announced a major security operation in Kakamega County to flush out gangs that have terrorised residents over the last three months. Touring the troubled region, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'í announced a security clean-up exercise in Matungu, saying the government will stick to the same style it used in Mt Elgon. He told residents to prepare for a major security operation targeting criminal gangs raiding homes at night and viciously attacking villagers. Dr Matiang'í said the government has deployed the paramilitary GSU to hunt down criminals following the brutal murder of 13 people in the last one month. He said the operation will go on until all the suspects are arrested. Citing Mt Elgon, where the government restored sanity after a wave of attacks, the CS said: "Who are these criminals among us? This won’t happen again. We have guns and the police. I have never issued sky promises because the President wants answers." SHAKE-UP Dr Matiang'í toured Matungu, Mulwanda and Kilingili for the first time since the onset of insecurity three months ago. He promised to effect changes in police officers in the region to improve security. Accompanied by Inspector-General Hilary Mutyambai, Dr Matiang'í said officers will be transferred in a shake-up set to begin next week. "The days of those criminals who have been attacking villagers and killing them are numbered. From today, we are deploying the GSU and increasing the number of other security officers to restore sanity," he said. He added that politicians implicated in the killings will be arrested once police conclude investigations. BIZARRE MURDER Dr Matiang’i, who was particularly angry following the killing of a pregnant woman and her three-year-old daughter, said the criminals had invited the government. “We have come to meet you face to face. We are here to work because the killing of innocent civilians in an area that has been enjoying peace has attracted us.” He said the government had also deployed enough officers in Vihiga to flush out criminals. He began his visit in Matungu, where 13 villagers were murdered by criminal gangs in the past month, and later toured Kilingili where six watchmen were killed at the local market. Two others were murdered at Mulwanda market in Khwisero.  