Dr Joachim Osur sees a couple in the aftermath of an accident that left the man on a wheelchair. **** When John was involved in a road crash that left his spinal cord injured, Jane, his wife, was most concerned. She hoped her husband would overcome the ordeal and be back on his feet again. It, however, never occurred to her that this unfortunate event would be the cause of disharmony in their marriage. “I visited him twice a day at the hospital, cleaned him, and collected and disposed of his body waste,” explains Jane, “but what did I get in return? Harsh words, insults, and hate. It was very strange to me.” After spending four months in hospital, John was discharged on a wheelchair. His legs were numb. He was put on a urinary catheter since he could not control urine. Sexual intercourse was out of the question. INFIDELITY According to the doctor, chances of John regaining his lost leg, sexuality and urine functions were slim. The spinal cord was badly damaged leading to paralysis of the waist downwards. “I sympathised with the man I had loved all my life, it was a difficult time for us,” says Jane. “I made a promise to myself that whether he recovered or not I would remain true to him all my life. Little did I know that he would betray my trust.” John’s insults worsened after he was discharged from hospital. He stopped showing her love. Eventually, he became violent. “He would wait for me to get to bed and ask me how many men I had slept with from the time he got disabled. Within no time, he would be punching and slapping me.” For the 10 years that they had lived together, the couple had never had relationship problems. Their sexual life was satisfactory. They did not suspect one another of infidelity, and therefore John’s behaviour was strange. INSECURITY John continued accusing Jane of being unfaithful, and she had to drop all her male friends for the sake of her marriage. But still, this did not help. John would not allow her to talk to her male colleagues on phone even when it was a work-related conversation. Each day, he would check her sent and received text message history and all the calls made. Occasionally, he would call back some of the numbers and warn them to keep off his wife. Jane would feel so embarrassed. Jane’s story is a reminder of the many couples who, because of unfortunate life events, get disabilities that stop them from engaging in sexual intercourse. As in the case of John, it could be an accident damaging organs vital for sexual function. In other cases, it could be a disease such as cancer or diabetes, leaving a man struggling with erectile problems, or a nerve disease interfering with a man’s or woman’s sexual desire. For others it is a psychological problem, leading to low sex drive. TRUST In some cases, the affected partner may become extremely jealous. The jealousy can become pathological so that it is an additional disease. Such partners construct mind pictures of infidelity without having any proof. They admonish, warn and even punish their innocent partners for the imaginary unfaithfulness. Because the community is sympathetic to the sick person, people may join him in accusing the innocent partner of being insensitive and tormenting the sick. “I need to know how to resolve this situation doctor,” Jane said interrupting my long explanation. “How can I make my husband trust me — I am always faithful despite his condition.” The solution should be counselling and therapy from the time the diagnosis is made. SEX THERAPY As it is now, most of our health workers are not trained on sexual medicine and sex therapy, and the topic of sex is normally left out when some of these diseases strike. If this discussion is initiated early in the treatment process, the sick person is able to ask all the question and this alone is therapeutic. The other thing is that the concept of sex can be adjusted to fit the situation. There are many people with disabling diseases who still enjoy satisfactory sex. The secret is to find suitable sex positions. “Don’t tell me that I and John can have sex again!” Jane quipped as she laughed heartily at my suggestion. To actualise my advice, I booked the couple for counselling and couple therapy. After several sessions, they learnt to be intimate again. “And you know what, John’s overall health and outlook to life has really improved!” Jane said on their last day of therapy. “At this rate I see the guy back to work in a few weeks, even on a wheelchair.” John smiled broadly, nodding in affirmation. Earlier on he had contemplated resigning from his job and just staying indoors.  