Kenya captain Mercy Moim is bullish about the team's chances of retaining the women's Africa Games volleyball title in Rabat come September. She was speaking to Nation Sport on Thursday after new Malkia Strikers coach Shaileen Ramdoo picked her to skipper the team in the qualification campaign for this seven-day competition which serves off in Kampala on Sunday. Team Kenya will depart for Kampala Friday evening to face long-time rivals Egypt hosts Uganda, plus Ethiopia, Tanzania, and Rwanda in the qualifying games of this tournament dubbed 'Zone V Africa Games qualifiers' at the Lugogo Indoor Arena. Only one team from this group is guaranteed qualification to the continental championship. The second place team may go through to the African Game as a best loser depending on the results from the other four zones. “No team is a threat to us. We will beat them all because we are in top shape," said Moim, who plies her trade at Thailand's top flight side Supreme Volleyball Club. Similarly, coach Japheth Munala who will be assisting Ramdoo in this assignment has backed the team to come good and has also hailed Ramdoo's impact since joining the team at the start of this week. The Italian coach was forwarded to Kenya by the International Volleyball Federation as part of a technical assistance program which also involves the Kenya Volleyball Federation. "He has been of great help to our team by teaching us new tricks on reception which has been a headache. People are talking about Egypt only as our tough opponents, forgetting that Uganda have improved a lot." The Kampala bound squad boasts veteran centre players Kenya Prisons’ Edith Wisa and Triza Atuka of Kenya Pipeline, plus rookie right attacker Immaculate Chemtai. Kenya beat Algeria, hosts Republic of Congo and Cameroon to win the 2015 African Games title in Brazzaville but have been forced to again qualify for the competition via the qualification matches which serve off this weekend. Setters: Jane Wacu and Janet Wanja Left attackers: Mercy Moim, Leonida Kasaya, Sharon Chepchumba, Noel Murambi Centre players: Lorine Chebet, Edith Wisa, Trizah Atuka Right attackers: Violet Makuto, Emmaculate Chemtai Libero: Agrippina Kundu  