Early this week, the Anti-Counterfeit Agency (ACA) announced that it had confiscated goods worth over Sh125 million in just one month. These goods were either fake or imported irregularly, or both. Of the seizure, Sh85 million worth was in one consignment safely imported from a country in the Far East to the port of Mombasa and onward to the Inland Container Deport (ICD) in Nairobi’s Embakasi. It included a 40-foot container full of “fake circuit breakers”. It means the Sh85 million counterfeits belonged to one trader, or at least one entity. I will come back to why this is an important fact later. Though the story did not tell us what happened to those who were responsible for the importation, I swear something must have happened to them, or should. Behind every crime, there is a criminal. Anyway, in the period between May and October last year, ACA chief executive officer Elema Halake said the Multi-Agency Anti-Illicit Trade Outreach (MAAITO), a government team that also includes Kenya Revenue Authority, Kenya Police and the Kenya Bureau of Standards, seized counterfeit goods valued at Sh8.5 billion. In the same period, some 200 suspected culprits were arrested and charged in court. DANGER There is no doubt that business in counterfeits, just like all illegal business, is bad business. It is bad for the economy, it is bad for our health and it is bad for good business. Every time a counterfeit product is transacted, a genuine product is stuck on some shelve somewhere. The Kenya Association of Manufacturers claims its members lose about 40 per cent of their business to counterfeiters. Counterfeit business feeds terrorism; it feeds corruption and unemployment. It also kills directly. You can imagine the danger posed by fake circuit breakers, for instance! You may also remember the panic the country was subjected to when we were told some rice and sugar laced with poison had been imported into the country and was already in our dining rooms. Terrorists who engage in biological warfare actually treasure the counterfeit industry. It provides an environment conducive enough for them to kill their targets and make money while at it. REVENUE We are told the government loses more than Sh30 billion every year in unremitted tax alone due to counterfeit business. That is why reports of success in the anti-counterfeit effort, any success however modest, should be applauded by everyone, including those who think they benefit from the vice directly. But this war, like all wars, has had and is having casualties every passing day. And the bereaved are wailing, louder by the day! And that takes me back to the probable single importer of the 40-foot container of circuit breakers. Having toyed with business at some point, albeit in just the over Sh100,000 category, I can only imagine how a man or woman would feel if they lost merchandise worth Sh85 million in one fell swoop! Many more wails will be heard. But you can be sure they will die over time when the victims realise the futility of crying over spilt milk. Or corruption wears them out. Mr Mugwang’a, a communications consultant, is a former crime and security reporter; michael.mugwanga@gmail.com  