Traders in Lamu have expressed their concerns over the delayed facelift of the Lamu municipal market which is supposed to cost Sh50 million. The traders said they are facing numerous challenges while operating in an old market and called on the Lamu County government to speed up the building of the market to save them from the current congestion. The market is home to over 200 small scale traders who mostly sell groceries, cereals and other essentials. Speaking to the Nation in Lamu on Monday, the traders said the current space at the market is limited and congested and that many of their products are rotting as a result. LEAKING ROOF The market has dilapidated roof which leaks during rainy seasons leading to interruption of business. In March this year, the county governments announced plans to spend Sh50 million in rebuilding the market to enable it accommodate more traders and improve hygiene. According to an earlier statement by Lamu Municipality Manager Omar Famau, the entire project would be funded by the World Bank under its Sustainable Economic Development Programme. Mr Famau had announced that the funds for the market’s expansion had already been disbursed with work set to start any time. But traders who talked to the Nation questioned why it is taking long for the project to be implemented. Ms Susan Njeri said they were expecting the construction work to have begun long time ago. RAINY SEASON “It’s unfortunate that nothing has so far been done. We were only called and told that Sh50 million has been allocated for the market’s facelift. We expected the work to have started by now. The rainy season is here and it will be very difficult for us to operate under a leaking roof,” said Ms Njeri. Mr Mohamed Hussein said the current situation at the market is pathetic. He said the market currently lacks a proper drainage system and dumpsites. “We were told the new market will have a modern drainage system. The current situation here at the market is unappetising. There is accumulation of both sewage and all manner of dirt around and within our market. We’re worried that the situation might be made worse by the onset of rains. Let the county government speed up the intended construction,” said Mr Hussein. TAXES Some of the traders threatened not to pay taxes until the market is renovated. “We can’t work in such poor conditions yet we’re paying taxes. They either renovate the market or we refuse to pay the taxes,” said Ms Margaret Wairimu. Contacted for comments, the municipality manager said they have already advertised the tender for the market’s construction and expansion and urged the traders to be patient. “Various contractors have already submitted their applications and processes are on. Once the tender is awarded to the right contractor, that’s when the construction work will begin,” said Mr Famau.  