Tension and uncertainty is high in Maana, Matopeni Ward in Nairobi City County with residents fearing they will soon be left homeless as most of their houses will soon be demolished by Kenya Power. The residents said that the state power utility firm had said that it will erect beacons in the area to mark structures sitting on power way leaves. But this is yet to happen, more than a month after the communication. Some of the residents, mostly tenants, have started moving out of their houses for fear of losing their belongings in case of impromptu demolitions by Kenya Power. CONFUSION “We are now in a state of confusion as we do not know whether our houses are affected or not. Kenya Power people told us last month that they would come to mark the boundaries but they have not done so since,” said John Njoroge on Thursday during a meeting with Nairobi MCAs. Another resident, Mary Wainaina, has called on Kenya Power to make it clear to them whether they are affected or not as they do not know when the demolitions will resume. “They said they have halted the demolitions but we do not know until when. Let them come clear to us and tell us beforehand so that we can organise ourselves,” she said. COURT INJUNCTION In March, the residents went to court and obtained an injunction against the state agency’s planned demolitions. Reached for comment, Kenya Power Security Services Manager Geoffrey Kigen said that they had planned to start the demarcations this week but stopped it to allow for the opening of schools. “We halted the process because of the holiday and the opening of the schools so that we do not interfere with the residents,” said Mr Kigen. On their part, Nairobi MCAs appealed to President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene and ensure that the directive by Governor Mike Sonko last week halting demolitions in the capital is adhered to. Led by County Assembly Majority Leader Abdi Guyo, the ward representatives said that the demolitions defeat the purpose of the Big Four agenda on affordable housing being championed by the government. DEVELOPMENT “Instead of talking about development and making sure our citizens are sheltered, we are talking about demolitions. It is like giving with the right hand and taking back with the left hand,” said Mr Guyo. He called for action to be taken against Kenya Power officials who allowed for the developments along electricity way leaves to proceed under their watch. “These structures were not built overnight but when the officers from the agencies who are now demolishing the houses were watching. We do not want to see any more demolitions,” said the Matopeni/Spring Valley Ward MCA. SURVEYORS His sentiments were echoed by Mihang’o Ward MCA Paul Kados who claimed that the plots were allocated in the presence of Kenya Power officers and even government surveyors. “We are urging those who had started moving out to come back. Let Kenya Power come and do the demarcations to put an end to all the current uncertainty and confusion,” said Mr Kados. Other MCAs present during the event included Assembly majority whip and South B MCA Waithera Chege, Dandora II MCA Silas Matara, Komarock MCA John Kamau, and Utawala MCA Patrick Karani among others.  