Deputy President William Ruto has vowed to continue supporting churches. Dr Ruto, who raised funds for more than 20 churches in Turkana County on Sunday, said that his critics must know that going to church and making contributions for their development is voluntary and no one should feel offended. "We will continue to support churches and all religious groups. Those who are against church contributions will face God on judgement day," the DP said at Naperebei Kingdom Sanctuary at Nakwamekwi in Lodwar town. UNITED He advised leaders to be selfless and remain united for the benefit of all citizens. He said that early this year, he helped raise Sh400 million for churches to ensure that at least 24 tribes have the Bible translated in their local languages. Led by Governor Josphat Nanok, area MPs James Lomenen (Turkana South), John Lodepe (Turkana Central) and Mohammed Ali Lokiru (Turkana East) praised Dr Ruto’s efforts in contributing to the development of churches. The leaders criticised Orange Democratic Movement leader Raila Odinga of only thinking about Turkana during electioneering period. Mr Nanok said Dr Ruto, like other God fearing leaders, was contributing his own money towards the development of churches. FUNDRAISERS “I will also continue attending church fundraisers whenever I am invited and I urge all leaders to follow suit,” said Governor Nanok. Mr Lomenen said politicians must contribute to the development of churches and asked the Deputy President to continue supporting them. "Any leader who does not support Turkana residents during the hour of need will not get votes from here,” Mr Lomenen said. Dr Ruto will on Monday finalise his tour of Turkana by launching key projects that include the construction of a Sh7.5 billion road in Turkana West. The road links Kenya to South Sudan through Nakodok border centre. He will also launch the Sh1.5 billion Kainuk bridge. Turkana leaders vowed to work with the national government. TEACHER SHORTAGE The DP began his development tour of the county in Turkana South Sub County on Saturday where he launched the construction of a Sh50 million Aroo Teachers Training College in Ekamarese centre within Lokichar Ward. The Dr Ruto said the college will help address the issue of teacher shortage as well as provide an opportunity for youth in Turkana and the country at large. He also opened the newly constructed Turkana South CDF office in Lokichar town before heading for Super Women Group-organised fundraiser at Baraza Park. Dr Ruto also visited Lokori in Turkana East Constituency where he opened Lokori Technical Training College. Three more technical colleges are being constructed in Turkana North, Turkana Central and Loima constituencies. "The four technical colleges in Turkana County will ensure that youth acquire relevant skills, competence and knowledge to drive country's development programme in achieving our Big Four Agenda" Dr Ruto said.  