Politician Raila Odinga said on Saturday that he has not asked for a seat following his handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta since their only agenda is unity and a strong foundation for a growing Kenya. Mr Odinga, leader of the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM), said so on Saturday, when he hosted a delegation of politicians from Nakuru County at his Opoda home in Bondo, Siaya County. "[Uhuru and I] don't talk about Luos and Kikuyus, we speak about all Kenyans. We want everyone to have an equal chance," he said. "The only Kenya we have agreed on is a united and stable Kenya. We signed the Building Bridges Initiative to unite Kenyans," he also said and noted the meeting was "in the spirit of the handshake". The initiative was one of the unity efforts that arose from the President Kenyatta and Mr Odinga's March 9 handshake, that followed a prolonged election season. 'THE LIGHT' The visiting delegation of about 150 politicians, led by former Molo MP Njenga Mungai, assured Mr Odinga of support, saying they had 'seen the light' following the handshake. Mr Odinga's wife, Idah, who joined him in welcoming the group, said their friendship with Mr Mungai had remained strong for years. Mr Mungai said the group, that included former Eldama Ravine MP Musa Sirma, was mainly composed of members of the Kikuyu community residing in Nakuru. He said the visit demonstrated the confidence the community has in Mr Odinga, as well as its support with his newly found working relationship with President Kenyatta. "We [came here today] because of the work you have done for this country," Mr Mungai told the orange party boss. "We want Kenyans to know we have discerned where the light is." FRUITS The visit was on the backdrop of Mr Odinga's reaffirmed working relationship with President Kenyatta following the historic March 9, 2018 handshake. Mr Mungai spoke of the fruits of the handshake, which he noted saw Mr Odinga and Mr Kenyatta set aside their political differences after the prolonged 2017 election season. He cited the intensified war on corruption. In Migori on Friday, the ODM leader said nothing would deter him from fighting the vice. Mr Mungai said, "We acknowledge your work, Hon Odinga, and I assure you that you are respected in Kenya and that Nakuru people want to follow you to Jordan." He added, "We want to assure you and Uhuru that no one can scare you." 'SIGNAL' Mr Wandayi said they were waiting for a signal from Mr Kenyatta and Mr Odinga on the direction to take. "My wars with Uhuru ended after handshake. A country without unity and peace can't progress. The country needs it [the handshake] because many are languishing," he said. He added, "People thinking they can stop the handshake are dreaming because the time to look at weaknesses in the Constitution has come." During the Migori visit, Mr Odinga announced that Kenyans should expect sweeping changes in the country in the next five months and said those who resist will be swept away by a raging tide. At the homecoming party of Nyatike MP Tom Odege, a stern Mr Odinga, who is leader of the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM), described this change as "very fundamental" to Kenyans. RIGHT DIRECTION Luo Council of Elders chairman Willis Opiyo Otondi, who was also in Opoda, said the visit was proof that Kenya was moving forward. "When I heard that the delegation was predominantly of the Kikuyu community from Nakuru/Rift Valley, I knew my dream for Kenya had come true," he said. "My prayer has always been for Raila and Uhuru work together. So when I heard about this delegation I knew Kenya would move forward." He said the council will also visit elders to the Kikuyu community in Nakuru in a show of solidarity. Leaders who attended the meeting included Governor Cornel Rasanga, Deputy Governor James Okumbe, ODM national chairman and Suba South MP John Mbadi, Director of Elections and Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi and Alego Usonga MP Samuel Atandi.  