Security agencies in Nakuru have intensified their crackdown against a dangerous gang that has been terrorising residents especially in the slums. On Wednesday, Nakuru East Sub-County Police Commander Ellena Wairimu and Deputy County Commissioner Herman Shambi led a contingent of police officers in a raid of hideouts of the criminal gang in Kivumbini and Flamingo estates and arrested four of its members. The youth arrested are expected to be arraigned on Thursday. “Confirm” gang was in December 2016 listed by former Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery as one of the more than 90 outlawed gangs operating in Kenya. PROTECTION The gang, which locals say has protection from some two local politicians, has been terrorising residents in Nakuru slums including Kivumbini, Lake View, Kwa Rhoda, Kaptembwa, Flamingo, Kaloleni and Bondeni among others. During the crackdown police also netted about five kilogrammes of bhang, 1,100 litres of illicit brew and at least 75 litres of chang’aa. It emerged that members of the criminal gang have been giving protection to a cartel involved in brewing of illicit brew in the slums. "We believe the suspects are part of the notorious Confirm gang that has been terrorising residents in various slums. They also protect a thriving illicit brew business in the slums. We will continue with a sustained crackdown until we get rid of all their criminal cells," said Ms Wairimu. The police boss also revealed that they have arrested several of members of the group. “We have so far arrested at least 100 members of the group in the past few months who have been charged in court. We have also increased our patrols in various parts of the affected areas,” added the police boss. REPORT CRIMINALS Mr Shambi urged residents to report any criminals to the police to help them deal with crime in the region. “We will not tolerate a resurgence of any criminal gang. Those involved will face the full force of law. I urge residents to be candid and to report members of the criminal gang to help police arrest more culprits. Security agents are ready to nip in the bud any re-emerging criminal gangs and the operation will continue until we wipe out the gang,” said Mr Shambi. Confirm gang, mainly made up of youth, is also said to have a network of fraudsters on the loose who use mobile money technology to swindle Kenyans out of their hard-earned cash in Nakuru and other towns. HIGH-TECH SWINDLERS The swindlers have gone high-tech and, like hunters chasing flying birds that are not perching, they have been increasingly devising new ways of capturing their victims without missing. Independent investigations by the Nation revealed that Confirm has tentacles spread in various slums and has been operating with impunity and obtaining money fraudulently through mobile money transfer services and doing muggings and robberies. The gang members operate in groups of between four and 20 people in the slums and are in most occasions glued to their phones. Last week police acting on a tip off gunned down a suspect believed to be a member of the notorious Confirm group in Kwa Rhonda estate. Police said the suspect was part of a group of six thugs who had raided a shop in the area and made away with gas cylinders. During the incident, police also netted an assortment of crude weapons among them a sword and pangas.  