Teachers who were suspended by the government for disrupting training on the new curriculum will defend themselves before their fate is determined. The Education ministry has been training teachers on the Competency Based Curriculum but there has been opposition. Sessions have been disrupted in counties including Kakamega County, Homa Bay and Makueni. At Kakamega School where he closed a week-long training on Friday, Prof Magoha said, "Only 160 teachers, among them union officials, boycotted through influence. They should humble themselves and follow the due process of seeking reinstatement." The Teachers Service Commission sent interdiction letters to the 160 teachers informing them of a disciplinary measure. They were given 21 days to show why they should not be fired on grounds of violating rules and regulations of their employment. KNUT OPPOSITION The Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) had asked its members to boycott the training, exercise, claiming it was unlawful. In Kakamega, County Knut Chairman Patrick Chungani and Kakamega Central branch Chairman Tom Ingolo, together with officials Kennedy Ayodi, Jackline Mulindi and Nelly Muliatsi, were charged with inciting teachers and disrupting the training sessions. They denied the charges before Chief Magistrate Bildad Ochieng and were released on Sh100,000 bond each or Sh50,000 cash bail each. The Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers (Kuppet) differed with Knut on the training, Deputy Secretary-General Moses Nturima saying teachers should not be stopped from attending since learning is a lifelong process. SUCCESS Prof George Magoha reported that the ministry had successfully trained 91,000 teachers and 1,400 education officials. He said the Kakamega exercise was a success despite the opposition. The minister further said that visits to training centres in Kilifi, Murang’a, Bungoma and Kakamega also pointed to success. He asked Knut to reconsider its position and join other stakeholders in supporting the programme. NATIONAL EXAMS Prof Magoha also spoke about the national primary and secondary school tests, saying they had been set. He dismissed as "nonsense", claims that pupils in the new system of education with write national tests and said they will undergo an internal assessment. “The CBC will identify children's interests and empower every child as there will be no failures," he said. He told Standard Eight and Form Four students not to "waste time revising past papers". "It is not wise [to do that]. Revise the syllabus because this is where the exam has come from,” he said, noting this year's national examinations had been secured.  