Gatundu South Member of Parliament Moses Kuria has criticised the Kenya Bureau of Standards’ move to enforce tough laws on importation of used car parts. The legislator said such a move will render thousands of second-hand vehicle spare parts dealers jobless and make more Kenyans suffer. SACK MINISTERS “Many bad policies are making Kenyans suffer. People are being pushed out of business as ministers lie to the President that all is well,” said Mr Kuria who called on President Kenyatta to sack "incompetent" members of his Cabinet. “People are suffering, they have no money, there are no jobs. I urge President Uhuru Kenyatta to dissolve the Cabinet,” said Mr Kuria. The lawmaker said that the Cabinet should be picked from Members of Parliament. He said that only such a Cabinet can be responsive to the needs of the people. READ: Ban on used car parts to cost Sh2bn The legislator also took issue with CSs Peter Munya (Trade and Industrialisation), Sicily Kariuki (Health), Mwangi Kiunjuri (Agriculture) and James Macharia (Transport and Infrastructure) whom he claimed had failed Kenyans. POLICIES Mr Kuria said despite the four holding key dockets, they had failed to come up with policies to boost development in Mt Kenya region. The legislator claimed that bad policies by the Industrialisation ministry on importation of goods had killed many businesses and led to massive job losses. He said that many goods were either being held at the port of Mombasa pending clearance or were discarded in the fight against counterfeits. The legislator claimed that the new policy on importation of goods had made many small scale traders in Nairobi’s Nyamakima close their shops and sack employees. UNITY Mr Kuria said traders should be allowed to import goods without being subjected to many hurdles. He said that the policy prohibiting traders from importing different types of goods in one container had pushed many people out of business. The MP, who also called for Mt Kenya region’s unity ahead of 2022 General Election, claimed that coffee, tea and dairy farmers from Mt Kenya region have continued to suffer due to high cost of farm inputs.  