Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege has told off her Kiambu counterpart Gathoni Wa Muchomba over her claims that central Kenya MPs had hatched a plan to impeach President Uhuru Kenyatta. Ms Chege termed the claims as blatant lies and asked Ms Muchomba to apologise. She said the remarks by the Kiambu MP were reckless and blatant lies aimed at misleading Kenyans. Speaking in Kenol town, the Murang’a Woman Rep said the perception that Mt Kenya MPs had teamed up with Deputy President William Ruto to impeach the President is not true, adding that no leader from the region can even dream of such a plan. REPENT “Those were blatant lies from the deputy president’s enemies. All leaders from Mt Kenya love and support the President and there has never been such a plan. Ms Gathoni should confess and repent for telling lies and she should never propagate such propaganda,” Ms Chege said. She cautioned Mt Kenya MPs not to politicise every other issue, urging them to tone down their political rhetoric for the sake of development in the region. She added that whenever there arises problems in government, those who speak about it should not be labelled as anti-government but all leaders should join hands to seek for a solution instead of pointing fingers. TRADERS' WOES Referring to the recent incident where businesses have been closed down after the traders’ goods were locked at the port of Mombasa, Ms Chege challenged the government to be conducting public participation before introducing new laws and policies, noting that businesses have been adversely affected by the policy initiated by the Ministry of Trade. “The Agikuyu community owns most businesses in Nairobi and the recent closure of businesses in Nyamakima could see most of them getting into. The Ministry of Trade should engage locals before introducing punitive policies. “When we talk about these issues, other leaders should [avoid] politics and assist the government in seeking solutions because that’s why we were elected,” she said. She proposed that the government establishes some banks that will give loans with favourable interest rates to the traders to enable them carry out their businesses without being uninterrupted. She said the current interest rates are not good for the traders since they are still subjected to other taxes.  