Deputy President William Ruto allies have dismissed as inconsequential the recent defection of some of the key political figures in the Rift Valley. They have said that those who left Dr Ruto’s camp did not have huge political following in the region. Those who left the DP’s camp have accused some of Dr Ruto’s close allies of arrogance. SIDESHOWS Elgeyo-Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos, who is the latest high-profile figure to quit the DP’s camp, said he was not happy with the way he had been treated. He has joined Baringo Senator Gideon Moi’s camp. READ: Why Ruto may find himself isolated The governor quit the camp because of Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen. Mr Murkomen has, however, dismissed the governor saying he would not engage with him in ‘sideshows’. Mr Murkomen said he was fully focused on serving the people of Elgeyo-Marakwet. INSECURITY “My greatest focus now is to serve the people of Elgeyo-Marakwet including addressing matters insecurity in Kerio Valley. I do not have time now to engage in sideshows,” said Mr Murkomen. Soy MP Caleb Kositany, who is among those accused of blocking others from the DP, laughed off the claims saying no one had been blocked from seeing the DP. “This is a very cheap way of doing things. The DP is very accessible. Nobody has been blocked from seeing him,” Mr Kositany told the Nation on phone. “The DP is accessible to all leaders from all parties," he added. READ: Tolgos ditches the Ruto camp over ‘insults’ At the weekend, prominent Uasin-Gishu businessman Bundotich Zedekiah Kiprop aka Buzeki, who also left the DP’s camp last week, said he had quit after feeling disrespected by those close to Dr Ruto. POLITICAL PATH He said he had decided to chart his own political path as he prepares for another jab at the Uasin-Gishu governor’s race in 2022 after losing to Mr Jackson Mandago in the 2017 polls. Just days before Mr Buzeki left, Uasin Gishu Woman Representative Gladys Shollei had also distanced herself from Dr Ruto’s team saying she did not subscribe to their ideas. “You will never see me in Tanga Tanga or Kieleweke movements’ functions. This is because I believe in development and not politics," said Ms Shollei recently. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, who has not been actively involved in the Ruto 2022 campaigns, has chosen to focus on Uasin-Gishu County affairs. POLITICS He has avoided most of the functions held by Tanga Tanga team in the county. Recently, he urged the residents not to focus their energies on politics. "I spoke so bad about Raila Odinga last time but if I was to be invited to State House what will I tell him when I find him there? Politics is not for the weak," he said in reference to the current status of Mr Odinga since his handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta in March last year.  