Q. I have interviewed three times for a job I applied for. There is nothing I would like better than to get it, however, the job description worries me because it is all over the place. When is the right time to request the hiring manager to revise the scope of the role? The mix of responsibilities makes no sense to me.  Congratulations, definitely, you are the preferred candidate if you have been interviewed thrice. This is to probably to confirm and make sure that you have the right competencies and attitude. More often than not, the job description precedes the interview process as it is what determines the content of the advert to attract the right candidates to apply for the role. The more complex a role is the more scrutiny and rigorous the interview process to ensure the panel recruits a candidate who is able to manage the role. Mentioning this during the interview requires tact so as not to be misinterpreted. You have to be careful lest they assume you are not up to the task, a factor that could jeopardise your chance of getting the role. To answer your question, one opportune time would be at the point where you are called to negotiate the terms and conditions of employment. At this juncture, the panel has already decided you are the best candidate for the role, therefore chances of being dismissed are diminished. Indicate to the recruitment manager that you are excited about the position, but are concerned about some of the responsibilities highlighted in the job description. It would help if you give reasons why you would like some responsibilities changed. And it should not look like you are reducing the responsibilities since this would signal to the manager that you are a lazy employee. To manage this, suggest other responsibilities not indicated that you think can enrich the role, however, note that grading of the role depends on the responsibility, therefore, you need to be careful not to strip the role off the critical responsibilities that make it less critical to the business, therefore lowering the grade. It might work against you in future when you ask for a pay rise. Another option is to wait until you are confirmed into the role and then bring up the matter. By then, you might have learnt why the mix of responsibilities is necessary. It would also help to compare the job description of your peers in the respective industry before you discuss the matter with the hiring manager. Job descriptions can change due to many dynamics within the organisations, therefore this is not an unusual request, what matters is the approach you take to request for the change.   Consider yourself lucky to have a boss who appreciates your efforts and rewards you.