The role of the prosecution was brought into sharp focus during the ruling of a murder case against a police officer. While acquitting Eric Musila who had been charged with killing Diana Chemutai — a popular musician — in 2016, Justice Richard Mwongo said detectives who investigated the case failed in their duty. “I know it is a difficult situation. I have my suspicions and have stated them in my decision,” the judge said. While giving the ruling, Justice Mwongo cited glaring gaps, giving the phone exchanges between the policeman and a man named Antony Ngare, who was not arrested. “The prosecution failed to recognise a change of call data pattern of the accused. It is the court that has noted the gaps,” the judge said. DNA SAMPLE He added that it was upon the prosecution to establish the relationship between Mr Musila and Mr Ngare. “These are the questions the prosecution was supposed to assist the court in its submissions,” he added. “The investigators also failed to take the DNA sample of Musila for analysis and match it with that of the deceased.” The court could not establish if the policeman met Chemutai on the fateful or if Mr Ngare was with Mr Musila at the time of the killing. He said the policeman may have travelled on the day of the incident but the prosecution failed to establish the alteration in the call data. The judge noted inconsistencies in the accused alibi, including denying that he knew Mr Ngare despite phone data showing that the two communicated more than 40 times. “Once again, the prosecution failed to link the two to the crime despite the obvious communication,” the court said. CONVICTED Throughout the judgment, Mr Musila, who was in a grey-hooded sweater, sat pensively, eyes glued on the floor. He only looked up after the ruling before he was immediately whisked away by police officers. Chemutai’s relatives screamed and wailed uncontrollably when Justice Mwongo gave the ruling. One of them collapsed and had to be assisted by the other relatives. The Administration Police officer was recently convicted of killing Eliud Kipchirchir, a land surveyor. The ruling was delivered at a Kisumu court by Justice Tripsisa Cherere on behalf of Justice David Majanja on April 9. The officer was in the VIP Protection Unit and had been assigned to the then Transport Principal Secretary Cyrus Njiru when the killing happened. Mr Musila had denied the murder charge. SAFETY He pointed the finger at his wife Chemutai, whom he claimed had access to his gun and often travelled to perform in various towns. The two were charged jointly, but the charges against Chemutai were dropped following her death in 2016. The case was then transferred from the High Court in Kericho to Nairobi before it was eventually taken to Kisumu following an application by Mr Musila’s lawyer on the ground of his safety. According to the firearms movement register, the policeman was given a pistol with a magazine and 12 rounds of ammunition at 2.40pm on January 10, 2012. The bullets were 9mm calibre, the same as the two whose spent cartridges were found at the crime scene.   Popular Kalenjin singer with string of hits and a chequered life was found dead in Bomet.