Two directors of a company linked to a Sh109.8 million fraud case that saw former National Land Commission Chairman Muhammad Swazuri and 10 others arrested have gone into hiding. Mr Nazir Ahmed Matabkhan and Mr Shakil Ahmed Khan of Tornado Carriers Ltd are being pursued by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC). The two went missing after the arrests of Mr Swazuri and other suspects in the case. “Our officers have been after the two, whom we learnt have gone into hiding, but we will catch up with them,” Mombasa EACC boss Japhet Baithalu told the Nation. Sources indicated that some EACC officers were in court on Thursday thinking the two might show up. This is after their lawyer moved to the court to block their arrest. VALUE INCREASES The two are linked to fraudulent compensation for land acquired by the NLC for the construction of Mombasa Southern Bypass and the Kipevu New Highway Container Terminal link road in 2013. The land that was acquired belongs to Tornado Carriers Ltd. According to Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji, the company’s land was initially valued at Sh34,501,110 in 2015, but the commission ended up paying them Sh109,769,363 after Mr Swazuri ordered for a second valuation. The NLC compulsorily acquired the land on behalf of the Kenya National Highways Authority (KeNHA). Mr Haji questioned how the value of the land more than tripled in just two years after the NLC ordered the second valuation. CHARGES The irregular payments led the EACC to begin investigations into the matter, which saw the other suspects arrested and charged in Nairobi. Those who were arrested included NLC commissioner Emma Njogu, Deputy Director of Valuation and Taxation Joash Oindo, businessman Samuel Rugongo, Mr Michael Onyango Oloo and his wife Lilian Keverenge, who is a secretary at the NLC, and the commission's Chief Executive Officer Tom Chavangi. Others were Mr Godfrey Muritu, Evahmary Wachera, Mr Francis Karimi, Director of Valuation Salome Munubi, and Director of Finance Francis Mugo. They faced several charges including corruption, conspiracy to commit an economic crime, unlawful acquisition of property, dealing with stolen property, abuse of office, financial misconduct and money laundering. They denied the charges and were granted bail after spending time in custody. Meanwhile, Mr Swazuri got a reprieve Thursday after the High Court reduced his bail. He will now be required to deposit Sh7 million cash bail or a Sh15 million bond to secure his release.   Justice Ngugi says review from Sh12 million ensures balance in comparison to similar cases.