Barely a day after Amani National Congress (ANC) kicked out nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi for alleged misuse of party funds, former Kakamega Senator Bonny Khalwale has found himself in the crosshairs of his party, as political parties reign in on indiscipline. Ford-Kenya Kakamega branch has filed a petition to the party headquarters accusing Dr Khalwale, who is the deputy party leader, of undermining the party activities in and around Kakamega. MISCONDUCT As a result, the disciplinary committee has written to the former senator demanding an explanation as to why disciplinary action should not be taken against him. The petition is supported by five affidavits from the chairperson of the party’s Kakamega branch and five others and relate to Dr Khalwale conduct since he crossed over to support Deputy President William Ruto early last year. The committee, which is chaired by Kwanza MP Ferdinand Wanyonyi, has asked the former senator to present himself before it on May 23, 2019 to defend himself against the allegation. “Due to you conduct, Ford-Kenya has diminished generally in popularity and influence and that the party’s activity in and around Kakamega under your leadership as the deputy leader have reduced,” Mr Wanyonyi said in his show cause letter to Dr Khalwale. Dr Khalwale, who lost in his bid to unseat Wycliffe Oparanya as the Kakamega Governor in 2017, has been drumming support for Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid since mid last year. Late last month, Dr Khalwale told a local radio station that Dr Ruto is fit to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022 because he is sober and a man of his word. Ford-Kenya leader Moses Wetangula has also declared his interest in the 2022 presidential bid, and his deputy’s endorsement of Dr Ruto is seen as a slap in the face of the Bungoma senator. In the petition, Ford-Kenya members accuse the former senator of campaigning for other political parties and candidates against his own party’s candidates. It further claims that Dr Khalwale has been supporting other political parties while serving as Ford-Kenya deputy leader and working with officials of other political parties. RIVALS He is also accused of ignoring local party leaders and working with other political party officials while at the same time openly embarrassing Ford-Kenya candidates in rallies. “Your actions, if substantiated may constitute one or more of the offences within the party constitution amounting to gross misconduct attracting penalties including the payment of fines, reprimand, suspension, expulsion or dismissal from office,” Mr Wanyonyi said in the letter dated May 13. He added: ”Should you fail to respond to this letter by Tuesday May 21, 2019, this committee shall draw relevant inference from your conduct and proceed to conclude this matter without further reference to you.”  