Government operatives have hatched a plan to tame and silence a section of Mt Kenya leaders who have 'defied' President Uhuru Kenyatta's directives to halt premature campaigns. In an elaborate plan to tame team Tanga Tanga members, who are allied to Deputy President William Ruto, the leaders will be de-whipped from their influential committees in both the Senate and the National Assembly. They will be punished this way for defying the President who 'sponsored them to get the positions. Some of the targeted leaders include Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata, Woman Representative Wanjiru Chege and Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa. UHURU'S DREAMS Gatanga MP Nduati Ngugi told the Nation that the leaders were supposed to be the President's ambassadors but they defied his directive to stop campaigning for the 2022 election and focus on his Big Four agenda. "The positions the leaders hold are very integral in realising the President's dream of actualising the Big Four but they are busy campaigning for their master in 2022," he said. "They should be replaced with members who will drive the President's agenda." The MP further accused his counterparts of keeping the country in an electioneering mood instead of helping Mr Kenyatta unite the country. COUNTRY DISORDERLY Kigumo lawmaker Ruth Mwaniki told the Nation that the country was disorderly as some Mt Kenya leaders had negated their core duty of respecting the President and following his directives as the head of state and the region's kingpin. She said the leaders were elected for "hanging in President Uhuru Kenyatta's coats" but ended up disrespecting him, saying their seats should be given to loyal members. "Party leadership has to be aligned to a certain policy for there to be order. Things are disorderly since some leaders are behaving as if there is no leadership," she said. "President must crack the whip and order for the removal of stiff-necked leaders without fear since majority are behind him." STATE JOBS A source who requested anonymity told the Nation that meetings to plot the removal of defiant members started on Thursday. The recent appointment of politicians who lost races in the 2017 general election is also touted as an extended plan to tame members. In Muranga, leaders backing Dr Ruto had their opponents appointed in state organs while those behind Kieleweke were not affected. In Maragua, Kiharu and Kandara, MPs perceived to be the DP's handlers also saw their opponents appointed. Mr Elias Mbau, who lost to Mary Waithira, was appointed to head NEPPAD while Joshua Toro, an opponent to Alice Wahome, was appointed to head the National Irrigation Board. Mr Karanja Mburu, an arc-rival of Ndindi Nyoro, will be heading Lapsset. "The leaders were appointed to replace the MPs who have been campaigning and forgot to work for their people," MP Ngugi told the Nation. NO INTIMIDATION However, the targeted leaders told the Nation that they will never be intimidated by the threat of being denied their positions. Ms Wanjiru Chege, who heads the Health Committee in National Assembly, said she was not aware of the plan and maintained that her biggest worry would be "being impeached by Murang'a people". "They voted for me ... it is a big sacrifice to head committees," Ms Chege said. She added, "We won't be cowed by threats and propaganda by members purporting to be President Kenyatta's personal secretaries." Senator Irungu Kang'ata said he did not wish to comment on the issue as he was President Kenyatta's personal friend. "The President is my personal friend. He has not told me to fight anyone but to support his agenda, which I have been supporting," he said. COUNTER ATTACK Tanga Tanga leaders who sought anonymity said they were aware of the plan and were ready to counterattack. "We shall frame the battle as being 'anti-Murang'a'. We shall remind people of how Murang'a supported Jomo Kenyatta in 1963 by stepping down only for them to be betrayed, and how we supported former President Mwai Kibaki who betrayed Matiba. Let them bring it on," one told the Nation. They said Kieleweke dislikes commoners and prefers elites, so it has lost touch with the grassroots.  