The Teachers Service Commission (TSC) has stepped up training on the new curriculum despite opposition by the Kenya National union of Teachers (Knut). The competency-based curriculum (CBC) has been rolled out for nursery schools and Grade 1 to 3 while the Grade 4 programme has been set for 2020. Amid Knut's opposition to the training, Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha has assured Kenyans that the rollout will continue. To support the CBC's implementation, the commission is training 1,365 more officers across the country. Prof Magoha is set to preside over the exercise in Murang’a County on Monday. PROGRESS So far, 100 master trainers were have been taken through the CBC and and the National Education Management Information System (Nemis) at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD). In March, 91,320 teachers were trained across the country for four days. The TSC says the target population is made up of county and sub-county directors of education, quality assurance and standards officers, projects coordinators and its county and sub county directors. Those trained will be required to supervise, monitor and assesses implementation of the CBC, advise on interventions necessary for the process, create awareness the CBC and the competency-based assessment (CBA), and on how to effectively use Nemis to monitor all of the ministry's programmes. OUTCOMES The commission said the training will take place at 17 venues across the country, from May 6 to 10. Its outcomes include effective monitoring and reporting on CBC policy implementation, comprehensive real time reporting for decision making and the dissemination of informed policy decisions to stakeholders. Others are effective teacher support in both public and private schools, overall improved learning outcomes as a result of effective teachers mentorship and coaching, and effective implementation of Nemis in learning institutions. On Friday, Education Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang noted the need to interpret the Basic Education Curriculum Policy and the CBA framework, which he said can only be achieved with better training. “We have the task of changing the mindset of all our stakeholders and moving them to the new system,” Dr Kipsang said, adding that the government wants, under the auspices of the CBC, to “see what the learner has attained, not what the teacher taught". KNUT'S DEMANDS However, Knut says it will only support the process if the government establishes, through a Gazette notice, a commission of experts. The commission, Knut says, should comprise curriculum experts, education policy developers and other knowledgeable Kenyans with proper credentials in education matters, who will to evaluate the curriculum, consider other reforms and make recommendations. Knut Secretary-General Wilson Sossion further said the TSC should be given a clear mandate and terms of reference. “The national government should adopt fully innovative competency approaches already tried and tested in literacy and numeracy globally. Benchmarking should be done in specific countries with impeccable education histories,” said Mr Sossion. He also wants the ministry to commission highly accomplished and experienced curriculum evaluators to produce high quality reports to help the Education minister make informed decisions.   Secretary-General Wilson Sossion gives reasons why teachers should boycott the exercise.