Yema Mwama scored the only goal of the game as Bandari beat visiting Ulinzi Stars 1-0 in a SportPesa Premier League match at the Mbaraki Sports Club , Mombasa on Thursday. The win moved the Dockers to 48 points, four behind second-placed Sofapaka and 11 behind leaders Gor Mahia. Bandari head coach Bernard Mwalala said he was very happy for collecting maximum points after losing matches against Gor and AFC Leopards last week. “I’m happy that we collected the three points today because Ulinzi is among the best teams in the country. We’re now preparing for our next fixture against Posta Rangers,” said Mwalala. His Ulinzi Stars counterpart Benjamin Nyangweso said a lack of killer instinct by his strikers cost them the game. “We dominated the game for most of the playing time but our strikers failed to utilise their scoring chances and we got punished by the late goal,” said Nyangweso. The soldiers started the game on a high note pinning their opponents back to their territory for most of the first half. In the 21st minute, Ulinzi’s striker Elvis Nandwa received a fine cross from Ibrahim Shambi, but saw his header hit the upper post. Ulinzi had another good opportunity in the 42nd minute when Oscar Wamalwa sent a fine cross which was neatly connected by Enosh Ochieng, but with only the Bandari goalkeeper to beat, he shot blindly wide. However, the home team managed to test Ulinzi goalkeeper James Saruni twice but he made brilliant saves from Collins Agade’s header and William Wadri powerful ground shot. In the second half, Bandari made two changes which paid dividends, Benjamin Mosha replacing Mwinyi Hamisi and Shaaban Kenga coming off for Wycliffe Ochomo. The two substitutes gave the Ulinzi defence a torrid time. In the 71st minute, Bandari could have taken the lead when Abdalla Hassan dribbled his way past two defender and squared for Mosha to send a cracking shot, which was parried for a fruitless corner by Saruni. Then came the only goal of the match in the 82nd minute when a corner by defender Dan Otewa was brilliantly headed home by Mwama. From then on, Ulinzi fought for an equaliser but were not able to get the breakthrough.   The win moved the Dockers to 48 points, four behind second-placed Sofapaka.