The International Volleyball Federation (FIVB) has seconded a European coach to train the national women team ahead of a busy schedule this year, which includes competing in the qualification campaigns for both the 2019 FIVB World Cup in Japan and 2020 Tokyo Olympics. Kenya Volleyball Federation president Waithaka Kioni on Thursday told Nation Sport that Italian Shaileen Ramdoo is expected to commence work in Nairobi on May 10. "He will be with us for 3-6 months. FIVB will pay his salaries and we will cater for his accommodation and other costs when he is in Nairobi. I am certain he will help us improve on the technical level and qualify for the Olympics," Kioni said. The 52-year-old coach is a certified international volleyball trainer with an FIVB Level 2 and 3-course certificate, alongside a UK National Sports Coaching badge among his qualifications. He enjoyed a short playing career in France before switching to coaching where he's worked in France, Mauritius, Italy, Iceland, Sweden, Chad, and Indonesia. He comes at a time the national team, commonly referred to as the Malkia Strikers, has suffered a dip in form after facing increasing competition from North African teams and Cameroon. While in Nairobi, Ramdoo will work alongside head coach Japheth Munala and a squad of 20 selected players including veterans Jane Wacu, Janet Wanja, Triza Atuka, Violet Makuto, Elizabeth Wanyama and Noel Murambi. Ramdoo and Munala's immediate task is to defend the All Africa Games title, with the Zone V qualification matches for this tournament taking part in Uganda between May 18-24. Six teams namely hosts Uganda, Kenya, Rwanda, Ethiopia, Egypt, and South Sudan have confirmed participation. Only the winners of the qualifiers will make it for the All Africa Games. The side will also compete in the Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt in August. Squad: Edith Wisa, Emmaculate Chemutai, Joy Luseneka, Pamela Jepkirui, Esther Mutinda, Elizabeth Wanyama, Mercy Moim, Jane Wacu, Triza Atuka, Gladys Ekaru, Agripina Kundu, Sharon Chepchumba, Janet Wanja, Noel Murambi, Leonida Kasaya, Violet Makuto, Lorine Chebet, Jemima Siangu, Linzy Jeruto, Caroline Sirengo.  