Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula, who is a person of interest in the ongoing investigations into fake gold scam, now says it is “a non-issue” to him. Reports had indicated that detectives had summoned him on Wednesday but the Ford-Kenya party leader said he was not aware of such summons. On Wednesday morning, the lawmaker led a meeting of his party in Nairobi. “I am here because I am here,” he said when asked about the summons. “I am here for my party meetings. I am not aware of what you are talking about, it is a non-issue to me and I don't want to engage in it.” SUMMONED But the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji on Wednesday made it clear that the senator had been summoned to record a statement at DCI headquarters on Kiambu Road. However, Mr Haji acknowledged that there have been delays. "He has been away. He has a date today with DCI. I am yet to get the report on the gold scam investigations because some of the suspects have been away," said Mr Haji. And although the seven days he gave DCI to look into the matter have expired, the DPP said he is okay with pace of investigations. SENATE DEBATE From the party meeting, he said, he was scheduled to condole with the family of former Amagoro MP Fredrick Oduya Oprong. “I'll be in a committee meeting at the Senate and I’ll be in the plenary in the afternoon debating issues of the country as they come on the floor,” he said. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) is looking into the case where a Dubai businessman claims he lost Sh400 million to scammers. Reports had indicated that Mr Wetang’ula was expected to shed light on the scam that has rocked Nairobi and beyond. SILENCE The senator has maintained silence over the rip-off that has seen international investors lose billions of shillings to local and foreign conmen running riot in the Kenyan capital. The opposition leader, who for the last few days been out of the country, resurfaced on Tuesday afternoon when he contributed to a Senate debate on money lenders. Later, he honoured the former Amagoro MP, who passed away on Monday. In his presentation, the senator decried what he termed as “abject lives” that former leaders, including MPs, lead after retirement. He proposed the enactment of a law that will guarantee retired MPs decent lives after leaving office.  