lsoNakuru Town East member of Parliament David Gikaria was arrested at Pipeline in Nakuru town on Saturday afternoon following a land grabbing fracas. Deputy County Commander Kirinya Limbitu said the MP also slapped a deputy sub-county police commander during the incident. Mr Limbitu said he was taken to an undisclosed police station and will be arraigned on Monday. WHAT HAPPENED The county commander said they received reports that Mr Gikaria and area MCA Humphrey Mwaniki were planning to lead youths in constructing illegal structures on private property. The construction was to take place on part of the three acres piece of land belonging to former Nakuru mayor Mohammed Surraw. Mr Limbitu noted that the case on ownership of the land had not yet been resolved by a court. “[They were planning] to construct structures on private property so we swung into action and dispersed the youth,” he said. Police used teargas to disperse the group that had blocked Nakuru-Nairobi highway using logs and stones. Several of the youths who were arrested while a massive heap of building materials and a motorcycle were impounded and taken to Central Police Station. Mr Limbitu confirmed that Mr Gikaria slapped a sub-county deputy police commander during the fracas and that he will therefore be charged with assault.   SURRAW'S CLAIMS Mr Surraw claimed Mr Gikaria and Mr Mwaniki were after his property and were planning to grab it. He accused the MP of inciting residents against members of the Somali community living in Pipeline and asking them to invade his property. “There are several pending court cases regarding this land. I fear my life is in danger as there have been threats to burn down my petrol station since the MP incited the youth to construct illegal structures,” said Mr Surraw. “I urge the Inspector-General of Police to investigate the matter of incitement thoroughly because nobody is above the law, not even Mr Gikaria."   PAST ARREST Mr Gikaria was arrested and charged in January with eight counts of land fraud. The lawmaker was charged with forging land documents and grabbing parcels of land within Nakuru County between August 28 and December 18, 2007. According to the prosecution, he and accomplices manipulated entries of dates in the green cards of eight blocks of land and replaced the names of seven residents with others. At the time, Mr Gikaria denied all the charges and was released on a personal bond of Sh3 million with a surety of the same amount, with the alternative of a cash bail of Sh1 million.    