The fake gold scandal involving six Kenyans and the Dubai royal family has taken a new twist, with leaders from the Kieleweke political camp loyal to President Uhuru Kenyatta, and Tangatanga — associated with his deputy William Ruto — trading accusations. As they visited various parts of the country trading insults, National Assembly Minority Whip Junet Mohamed (Suna East) and Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo-Marakwet) exchanged Twitter blows. “It is unfortunate that the Deputy President has resorted to insults… It is really worrying. What could it be for those who have studied psychology?” Mr Mohamed tweeted. 'CONMEN' Mr Ruto had referred to Orange Democratic Movement leader Raila Odinga and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula as “conmen”. It followed a recording that has since gone viral, where the President and Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i are mentioned in the fake gold deal. Mr Murkomen tweeted back: “So he went to DR Congo to manage the situation while Junet and (Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys) Wanga were busy planning with suspects how to counter the narrative?” DR CONGO Mr Murkomen was referring to Mr Odinga’s trip to the DR Congo, where the gold was to be sourced. Mr Odinga – Africa Union’s High Representative for Infrastructure and Development – had earlier tweeted: “Held talks with President Felix Tshisekedi of DR Congo on the construction of the Kinshasa-Brazzaville bridge that is part of the Tripoli-Cape Town Trans Africa Highway. We also discussed the Inga Dam, whose completion is critical for Africa.” Some 20 MPs affiliated to Kieleweke team were on Sunday at Kaharo Anglican Church of Kenya in Murang’a County. They said Mr Ruto’s defence of President Kenyatta in the fake gold scandal “is not genuine, but a scheme to fool Kenyans”. “We know where he is aiming at when hypocritically defending the President. Let investigations be carried out and thieves be charged,” nominated MP Maina Kamanda said. NO MEETING He added that the political pact between President Kenyatta and his deputy should be dropped and warned leaders who have been asking for a Jubilee parliamentary group meeting “to forget it”. “When lovers are making their vows, a meeting is called for celebrations but when the love goes sour, no meeting is ever called,” he said. Cherangany MP Joshua Kutuny said the Kieleweke team wants investigative agencies to establish the masterminds behind the fake gold scandal. “We want investigations to be conducted and corrupt people arrested. Someone pretends he’s defending the President so as to frustrate the investigations. They know they are the architects of corruption,” Mr Kutuny said. Mr Kamanda said Mr Ruto had perfected the art of defending corrupt people “including governors Ferdinand Waititu, Moses Lenolkulal and Okoth Obado”. “He has no regard for investigative agencies and has assumed the role of a lawyer by defending his followers being investigated for corruption,” Mr Kamanda said. PROTECTION In Bungoma, about 10 MPs allied to the DP attended a service at St Jude Muanda Catholic Parish and said the manner in which investigations are being carried out shows the culprits are “being protected”. Mr Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula), Mr Mathias Robi (Kuria West), Mr Fred Kapondi (Mt Elgon) and others said action should be taken against those mentioned, irrespective of their status. Mr Ruto said the opposition is quick to criticise other leaders “unfairly” on corruption matters “yet they are perpetrators of more serious crimes”. “They accused Jubilee of stealing the Eurobond, they said we had sold Mombasa port, now they are selling fake gold. Kenyans know who the conmen are,” he said. Mr Mabonga said western Kenya stands to benefit from Mr Ruto’s presidency.  