Education Cabinet Secretary Prof George Magoha on Wednesday will launch the new curriculum policy but the Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) now says it will not attend the event. The policy details how the ministry will ensure proper implementation of the new curriculum that is currently rolled out in pre-primary I and II, as well as Grade 1, 2 and 3. In one of its boldest step, the Ministry of Education which says it is not going back despite opposition, it will unveil the document at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD) in Nairobi. Already a sessional paper on curriculum reforms has been published and is before Parliament for discussion. However, Knut in a letter to Prof Magoha dated May 14 says it will not participate in the exercise. Knut Secretary General Wilson Sossion said the union cannot participate in an exercise that is flawed, lacks legitimacy and with no public participation as is required by the Constitution. STAKEHOLDERS The policy formalises the responsibilities of various actors involved directly and indirectly in the curriculum reform, development and implementation process. Prof Magoha has also indicated that the countrywide conversation on curriculum reforms is expected to start this month ahead of the national conference in August. On Monday, Prof Magoha met with Cardinal John Njue to brief him on the review process after holding similar meetings with other stakeholders last week. The policy, which is organised in five thematic areas looks at the issue of access to quality and relevant education, competency-based curriculum, pedagogical approach for all learners, issue of assessment, and resource mobilisation and management. The document seen by the Nation states that the government will provide adequate infrastructure and teachers to cater for diverse needs, abilities and talents of learners and develop curriculum that nurtures creativity and innovation. SHORTAGE Currently schools are facing a crisis of teacher shortage and facilities are overstretched due to a high number of students. Already, the Teachers' Service Commission (TSC) has asked the government for more resources to recruit more teachers.  