This morning, I was on my ‘almost mandatory’ phone call with my mother, who has been travelling a lot over the past few months. I choose to use the word mandatory because from wherever she is, she always has to find out how my we slept, if we all had breakfast and if I got to work safely. She will then have the same conversation with both my father and brother because each person has to speak for themselves. I am still a work in progress physically, emotionally, mentally. And year after year, I get a clearer understanding of why the world chooses to have these kind of days. Days like Mother’s Day. My reflection got me thinking about my mother too. There is nothing cliché about her. Her giving, gentle, nurturing, comforting, accepting, supportive, patient, understanding, caring compassionate and especially selfless qualities are all special. I LOVE HOW SHE LOVES I love how she loves. Trying to describe it is virtually impossible. I could only try doing so through a recent experience, when I understood the magnitude of her love for us. We were out for lunch one Sunday last month, and my father, who was not with us, forwarded a post which was titled Enjoying the Company of Your Children. She was already in tears, barely halfway through her reading it to us aloud. It did not matter to her that we were in a public place.   She went on with it so emotionally, almost as if she completely related to the content. And she explained that it did. WIPED HER TEARS At that very moment, as she wiped her tears and as we held her hands as she spoke, oblivious of whoever was watching, I felt an undying love for her. Here's what the forwarded message said in part: Mum knows that we will soon leave. She knows that we will carry our bags and that it will feel like we have tagged her heart along with us. She knows that we will close the door behind us, and that she will stand still thinking of the many times she shouted at us to close the door. Mum knows that soon, her home will no longer be filled with laughter, arguments, fights, jokes and loads of mischief- as is the norm. All she will have is the memory of our laughs, mischief and warm hugs. She will no longer have anyone to shout at about the pens, books, clothes and toys thrown all over, causing a mess in her house. She knows that her house will be clean and organised and that it will feel calm and peaceful. But she also knows that it will be like a desert with no life in it. Mum will have no one to tell her they haven’t completed their homework in the morning before school. She will have no one to tell to be responsible by taking care of their possessions. She knows she will soon be standing on the doorways of our rooms looking at empty beds and wardrobes. She knows that what will remain will be the smell of our perfumes, which she will take in because it will try to fix the ache in her heart. As we celebrate Mother’s Day, I choose to honour mine. My biggest cheerleader, comforter, biggest critic, best friend, source of peace and life line. Here’s to you, mama. *** Got feedback on this story? E-mail lifeandstyle@ke.nationmedia.com     I stumbled on my mother’s 1993 journal and got a glimpse into what life must have been like for her.