The European Film Festival was launched last Friday at the 20th Century Cinema. Now in its 28th season, it will run from May 4 to 26, 2019. The pre-festival screening involved the media and other stakeholders, including the European Union Ambassador to Kenya, HE Stefano A Dejak. In 2018, the festival included over 40 feature length movies from 21 countries, Q&A Sessions with the film-makers, an exhibition on Portuguese cinema history, a concert and virtual reality screenings. Over 4,000 guests were in attendance. This year’s edition will have 57 films over 23 days and in 12 locations so as to expand in its outreach to have cinemas accessible to most people; partner with community cultural organizations to showcase relevant programming; and collaborate with more Kenyan partners to build long term relationships in the cultural sector. CORNERSTONE OF ENGAGEMENT Mr Dejak said, “'Cultural relations are a cornerstone of our engagement here in Kenya, within the people to people dimension of our partnership. RICHER, MORE INTERESTING “This year’s programme will again be richer and ever more interesting, thanks to the joint work of the European Union Delegation to Kenya, European Union Member State, other participating European countries and our Kenyan partner organisations.” In addition, the film festival will include special engagements with invited European and Kenyan industry professionals, both emerging and established, to share experiences through master classes. The European Union Delegation to Kenya Festival curator Nyambura Waruingi reiterated on the importance of the partnerships and collaborations involved in the festival. MUTUAL RESPECT “This festival is truly about fostering a relationship of mutuality and respect of each other’s cinema cultures. Through the screenings and various special engagements, we are proud of the unique programming that not only gives you a taste of Europe’s finest, but also, the changing faces of Europe, while remaining engaged with the vibrant independent Kenyan filmmaking industry, both young and seasoned,” she said. Some of the Kenyan organisations working in partnership with the film festival include ANGA IMAX Cinemas, Black Rhino VR, White Rhino Films, Huipalas Cultural Centre, German School Nairobi, Slum Film Festival, Goethe-Institut Nairobi, Lake International Panafrican Film Festival, Alliance Française, Machawood, La Cinémathèque Afrique and Mookh. One can reserve tickets through the Mookh website in advance. A Mookh agent will also be available at the various film screening venues for those unable to book in advance.  