Defending SportPesa Premier League (SPL) champions Gor Mahia, who are staring at an unprecedented 18th title, are once again contenders to win the championship early with several games left to play, as they are currently seven points clear at the top and with one game in hand. Eight rounds of games are left to play and if they can collect maximum points in their next five games, then they will attain an unassailable 74 points and this will see them crowned SPL champions for the third time in a row. If they achieve this, it will be a repeat of last season when they beat AFC Leopards 2-0 in a chaotic Mashemeji derby with six games left to play. The same was the case in 2017 when K’Ogalo secured their record 16th league title with four games to spare after beating Ulinzi Stars 3-1 in Kericho. in 2016, the champions beat Sony Sugar 1-0 to win a third consecutive league title with four matches to spare. Sofapaka and Bandari are also contenders for the title, but they will have to win all their seven remaining games and hope that Gor win no more than three games in order to stand a chance. And tomorrow, the Hassan Oktay-coached side will be away to Western Stima at their shared Moi Stadium in Kisumu. Oktay is acutely aware that his charges are suffering both mental and physical fatigue, while some are distracted by the possibility that they could be dropped at the end of this month when the season comes to a close. He attributed these cocktail of distractions to Thursday’s epic come from behind 3-3 draw his team achieved over KCB, and he will want to tie the game down early. “We need to change this laid back attitude before it is too late. We completely lacked concentration against KCB and that almost cost us the game so I have told my players to be alert at all times especially now that the league is almost ending,” the Turkish-Cypriot coach said. Former Gor forward Hubert Kopany will be facing his former employer, while coach Salim Babu will be looking to record a second win since he took over the coaching duties at Stima a fortnight ago. “It has been long since I played for Gor but I still have some friends there. I am looking forward to the game. I am ready to perform if I will be called up,” Kopany told Nation Sport. AFC Leopards, who are on an eight-match unbeaten run that has seen them jump from the relegation zone to eighth, will on Sunday take on Mathare United. There is no chance that they will move any higher even if they collect maximum points, but to cling onto the top half of the table will be hugely important for the big cats as they warm up for the Mashemeji derby against Gor Mahia on May 19. FIXTURES Saturday: Vihiga United v Chemelil Sugar (Bukhungu, 3pm) Sunday: Posta Rangers v Bandari (Machakos, 2pm); AFC Leopards v Mathare United (Bukhungu, 2pm);Western Stima v Gor Mahia (Kisumu, 3pm); Kariobangi Sharks v Kakamega Homeboyz (Kasarani, 3pm); Zoo v Sony Sugar (Kericho, 3pm); Tusker v Sofapaka (Machakos, 4:15pm)Monday: Ulinzi Stars v Nzoia Sugar (Nakuru, 3pm); KCB v Mount Kenya United (Machakos, 3pm)  