Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, who was arrested over an alleged involvement in the recent Matungu killings, has threatened to sue Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i and Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai. Mr Malala, who was released from Kisumu Central Police Station on Sunday, said he would sue the two for unlawful detention. MISCHIEF The Kakamega senator, who claimed that his arrest was political, also said that he read mischief in the charges that were set to preferred against him. “How can I be booked on incitement to violence charge in the OB, yet they plan to charge me with murder?,” he posed. The senator was set free a few hours after Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji ordered the release of three other politicians who had been arrested and detained in connection to the Matungu killings. Former Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa and Mayoni Ward Representative Libinus Oduori were also arrested on Friday. Matungu MP Justus Murunga presented himself to detectives at the Western region police headquarters in Kakamega. He was later transferred to Kisii Police Station according to acting Western DCI Shem Nyamboki. Mr Echesa, who was transferred to Nandi-Hills Police Station, was also set free on Sunday. KILLINGS Western Police Commander Mr Rashid Mohammed told the Nation files related to the investigation on the killings in Matungu had been forwarded to the ODPP for further directions. Mr Haji, in a statement, indicated that after consultations with the Inspector General, it was clear that the investigations were at an advanced stage but was not complete. “The evidence so far gathered does not meet the requisite threshold. In the meantime, I further direct that the suspects be released on P52 pending the said investigations and report back to police on Monday May 20th at 10.00am without fail,” said Mr Haji. The four were set to be arraigned in court on Monday. Mr Haji further directed the Director of Criminal Investigations through Mr Mutyambai to have the Matungu brutal killings investigated thoroughly and the files submitted to his office for perusal. He asked the politicians to maintain peace and cooperate with law enforcement agencies.  