What do I believe? I believe what God has revealed. What has he revealed? He is a Father who has a Son. The Father and Son are one. Their union is the Holy Spirit. The Son is equal to the Father in every way. The Father sent his Son into the world. This divine Son is now flesh and blood, like us in all things except sin. Perfect God and perfect man. The crucifixion of the Son of God made the forgiveness of sin possible. SINLESS St Paul wrote in Second Corinthians: “For our sake God made the Sinless One into sin so that in him we might become the goodness of God.” On the third day after his crucifixion, Jesus rose from the dead. All who believe that he is the Son of God will rise in the same way. St Paul wrote in Philippians: “The Lord Jesus Christ will transfigure these wretched bodies of ours into copies of his glorious body. He will do that by the same power with which he can subdue the whole universe.” Forty days after his resurrection, Jesus ascended into heaven and sent the Holy Spirit to all who believe. These believers form a single body, which Jesus called his “church”. These men and women assemble to worship God. They spread the Gospel to all nations. EPHESIANS St Paul wrote in Ephesians: “If we live by the truth and in love, we shall grow completely into Christ, who is the head by whom the whole body is fitted and joined together.” Why do I believe this? Because Jesus really did rise from the dead on the third day. Why am I sure that this happened? Why, are we ever sure of anything? Why I am sure that I was born in United States? I did not see Jesus resurrect. Then again, I did not see my own birth either. But the witnesses for the resurrection are just as trustworthy and reliable as the people who told me I was born in Washington, DC. Jesus claimed to be the Son of God. He said he would rise from the dead on the third day after being crucified. FAITH He resurrected and appeared to hundreds of people. They spread the “good news”. That makes Christ’s claim believable, and that is why I believe. I do not say that this act of faith reduces to logic. Whether for myself or for any other Christian, I only contend that our act of faith is based on logic that it is easy to explain. jbabendreier@yahoo.co.uk  