Administration Police officers at Ejinja AP camp in Matungu Constituency in Kakamega County have been transferred with immediate effect following rampant killings of residents. The Matungu OCS has also been moved in the changes aimed at improving the security situation in the constituency. Kakamega County Commissioner Abdurizak Jaldesa said the transfers were made following an outcry from residents who accused the officers of laxity. He said two suspects have been arrested in connection to the rampant killings. A motorcycle was also recovered. GANG BEING SOUGHT "Two more were gunned down by the police while two others were killed by a mob after the killing of the Sayangwe family. We are following crucial leads to arrest all the gang members,” said Mr Jaldesa. County Police Commander Wilkister Vera promised to intensify patrols in the night to improve security. Twelve people have been killed by a gang of unknown people in the last one month in Matungu. The latest incident involves a family from Sayangwe village in Ejinja that was attacked by the gang on Saturday night. A pregnant woman and her two-year-old-daughter were killed while her husband and a six-year-old daughter sustained serious injuries. They were admitted to Matungu Sub-County Hospital with multiple cuts and later moved to St Mary's Hospital for further treatment. TRANSFER ALL OFFICERS Former Sports CS Rashid Echesa asked the inspector-general of police to transfer all police officers who have served in Matungu for more than five years. "The security agencies in Matungu have failed in their mandate. Where is the office of the DCI plus the National Intelligence Service? What are they doing to arrest the situation?" asked Mr Echesa Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya visited the affected home and the victims in hospital. HOSPITAL BILL He said the county government will pay the hospital bill and funeral expenses for those who died. "I visited the home and realised that this was one of the poorest families in Kakamega. I have therefore directed the county government to make arrangements for the funeral expenses. We are also transferring the patients to Kakamega Referral Hospital so that they get specialised treatment at the expense of the county government," said Mr Oparanya. He asked the police to use sniffer dogs in tracing the perpetrators who are moving around the constituency killing but without stealing from the victims.  