Ulinzi Warriors will be looking to sign off their Kenya Basketball Federation men’s Premier League first leg campaign on a winning note at Nyayo National Stadium gymnasium this weekend. On Saturday, the soldiers, who defeated Emyba 88-62 last weekend, will host newly promoted Eldonets from 4pm. On Sunday, the Kenya Defence Forces side complete their 11 match first leg programme against Kisumu-based Lakeside starting at 2.30pm. The Eastleigh-based soldiers must harvest maximum four points to enhance their chances of finishing top of the table with 21 points. Thunder, who are Ulinzi’s closest rivals for the table leadership, face Lakeside today from 2.30pm. Ulinzi Warriors and Thunder are locked at the top on 17 points from eight wins and one loss each. Should both teams win their weekend matches, Thunder will stay on top by virtue of having beaten Ulinzi Warriors 68-55 in their first leg fixture. Red-hot Thunder, spearheaded by dangerous guard Griffins Ligare and forward Kevin Chogo, demolished Umoja 65-45 last weekend and are again favourites to swamp out Lakeside. Ulinzi Warriors coach William Balozi said shooting guard Victor Bosire, Eric Mutoro and John Washika were enjoying top form that saw Ulinzi Warriors humiliate champions KPA 88-76 at their backyard in Mombasa. Ulinzi will be without aggressive forwards William Ochieng, Joseph Owino, guard Ben Mfutu, who are engaged in other official matters. Eldonets, who won last year’s men’s Division One league to earn promotion, shocked giants Blades 76-73 last weekend and their stars James Ongwae and Kevin Oyugi are ready to give Warriors a run for their money. Tomorrow, Eldonets will walk another tight rope against Equity Bank as they end their two tough weekend fixtures. In other top matches in Nairobi, women’s Premier League champions Equity Bank will square it out with Storms, Kenyatta University Oryx will welcome Kakamega-based Western Delight while Zetech University meet fellow varsity students Strathmore University from 11.30am. In Mombasa, men’s defending champions Kenya Ports Authority will host Nairobi-based Umoja on Saturday before they face KCA-U on Sunday. Sunday: At KPA Makande gymnasium - Coastal Kings v KPA (10am), Baobab Blazers v Little Prince (12pm), KPA Youth v Riara University (2pm), KPA v Umoja (4pm). At Nyayo Stadium - JKUAT v Strathmore University (8.30am), Oryx v Western Delight (10am), Zetech University v Strathmore University (11.30am), Equity Bank v Storms (1pm), Thunder v Lakeside (2.30pm), Equity Bank v Blades (4pm) At USIU-A - Mustangs v Nebulas (8.30am), Neosasa v MKU Thika (10am), Barclays Bank v Strathmore University (11.30am), KCA-U University v Kisumu Lady Bucks (1pm), Upper Hill v Renegades (2.30pm), NIBS v Nebulas (4pm) Sunday: At Mombasa: Baobab v Riara University (9am), Coastal Kings v Little Prince (10.30am), KPA v Youth v Footprints (12pm), KPA v Dynamites (2pm), KPA v KCA-U (4pm). USIU-A: 4 Christ v Nebulas (8.30am), Upper Hill v NIBS (10am), JKUAT v Kisumu Lady Bucks (12pm), MKU Thika (1pm), Upper Hill v Neosasa (2.30pm), Pirates v Trailblazers (4pm). At Nyayo - Zetech University v KAA (8.30am), Barclays Bank v Blazers (10am), Zetech University v Eagle Wings (11.30am), Storms v Oryx (1pm), Ulinzi Warriors v Lakeside (2.30pm)  