Private security guards have issued a 21-day strike notice to their employers to review their members’ salaries. Kenya National Private Security Workers Union secretary-general Isaac Andabwa said the minimum wage has become irrelevant with the high cost of living. He said the Sh1,500 housing allowance cannot match the current market rates. “At the moment, getting a house with less than Sh4,000 is not easy,” he said. “The minimum wage indicates that Sh800 caters for travel from Kisumu to Mombasa yet fares currently cost Sh2,000. The minimum wage has become outdated and that is why we demand a living wage,” Mr Andabwa said. MINIMUM WAGE The guards appealed to the Labour ministry to come up with the minimum wage based on a thorough research. “We are directly under the Private Security Regulatory Authority and therefore we want the newly appointed officials to address our plight within 21 days or we will down our tools,” Mr Andabwa said. Mr Fazul Mohammed is the new chief executive officer of the authority. This comes as the union signed a collective bargaining agreement (CBA) with KK Security at the Tom Mboya Labour College on Monday evening. The agreement will benefit an estimated 1,000 KK security guards attached to the United States Embassy. Mr Andabwa termed the CBA one of the best in the country as it includes a basic pay of Sh21,500, a housing allowance of Sh5,000 and a salary increment of three per cent annually. They will also be entitled to Sh150 for meals per day, Sh120 (night allowance), Sh2,500 (transport), Sh200 (cleaning allowance) and leave travelling allowance (Sh3,000), translating to a gross pay of Sh32,470. KK Security MD Chris Manning said: “Such agreements are important for a smooth working relations.” Meanwhile, the guards want the Inspector General of Police to establish counselling and trauma centres following the worrying cases of killings and suicides within the service. “The IG should ensure the welfare of police is looked into through counselling to reduce such cases,” Mr Andabwa said.  