Kabras Sugar and Impala Saracens will face off in the Enterprise Cup final. Fijian fullback Jones Kubu landed three of Kabras Sugar’s eight tries as the Western Kenya lads thrashed Kenya Harlequin 54-11 at the Rugby Football Union of East Africa grounds in Nairobi. At the adjacent Impala Sports Club, Anthony Odhiambo curled in a last minute penalty to spur the Sarries to a stunning 11-10 victory against fancied Kenya Cup champions Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB). Kabras Sugar, who are chasing their maiden Enterprise Cup glory, led 26-11 at the break before dismantling Quins for the first appearance at the Enterprise Cup final. The Resolution Health-sponsored Impala, who have won the Enterprise Cup 10 times, trailed 8-10 at the break before Odhiambo’s boot put them in the final slated for May 18 at the RFUEA grounds. “We had a nervous start but we increased the momentum especially at the breakdown in the second half,” said Kabras Sugar head coach Henley du Plessis. “It was great team work from my charges and I am happy we made our first Cup final.” Du Plessis said he keep the feet on the pedal and continue to polish especially at the set pieces ahead of their Kenya Cup semi-final against Mwamba on Saturday next week in Kakamega. “The final against Impala is still far but,” said Du Plessis, who dedicated the victory to their injured back Brian Tanga. Impala Saracens beat Kabras Sugar last year 16-13 at Kakamega showground to reach the Enterprise Cup final before losing to Homeboyz 21-3 in the final. Quins head coach Charles Cardovillis noted that critical decision in their opponent’s 22m area killed the game for them. “Our backline didn’t click to set platform for the forwards but again poor officiating slowed the game,” said Cardovillis. Cardovillis now turns his focus on their Kenya Cup semi-final clash against KCB on Saturday next week. “We simply must improve on our execution in the 22m zone and come out with points the way Kabras did,” said Cardovillis. Impala head coach Frank Ndong said his team were hanging by the thread in the first half where KCB dominated. “We managed to seal their offloads which opened the game for us, It has always been a tight duel between the two teams” said Ndong, who recalled having lost to KCB 20-18 in the Impala Floodlit final in October last year. Loose forward George Nyambua, hooker Max Adaka, Claude Johannes, centre Mario Wilson and winger Paul Abuto scored a try each to supplement Kubu’s hat-trick. Fly half Philip Wokorach made seven conversions. Winger Daudi Semwami managed a try for Quins as Eden Agero made a penalty and a drop goal but all was in vain. Curtis Lilako scored from a rolling maul before Jacob Ojee converted to add a penalty and give KCB the first half 11-8 lead. Billy Odhiambo scored Impala's try as Quinton Ongo, who missed five penalties, drilled over over conversion. Odhiambo then stepped up for his last minute penalty heroics.  