The interdenominational prayer rally scheduled to take place in Murang’a on Saturday and in which Deputy President William Ruto was to be the chief guest has been called off for the second time. Dr Ruto’s handlers said this is “because of a warning by a weatherman”. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro told the Nation that officers from the Meteorological Department warned the leaders that on Saturday, there will be freezing rain with liquid droplets, advising that holding such a mega rally would be inappropriate for both the deputy president and the congregation. He said the leaders and the clergy will notify the public when the rally will be held. WEATHER CAUTION “We have been cautioned by the Meteorological Department that we shall receive ice rain and it will not be advisable to hold the prayer rally. There is no politics behind the indefinite cancellation of the event and we shall keep the public posted on when to hold the rally,” Mr Nyoro told the Nation by phone. This is the second time the event has been postponed after it was put off on April 27 in what Dr Ruto’s handlers said was to allow him attend the burial of Jonathan Moi in Baringo. Later, there was confusion after the mainstream churches in Murang’a –Catholic and Anglican – withdrew from the steering committee that was planning for the event. DISOWNED RALLY Three Anglican bishops disowned the prayer rally and even accused the main organiser, Murang’a Bishop’s forum chairman Stephen Maina of the Full Time Winners Gospel Church, of disrespecting their spiritual head, Archbishop Jackson ole Sapit, over his remarks on politicians taking “dirty” money to the churches. During the event that has now been put off again, the deputy president was also expected to launch a sacco owned by the priests form different churches in Murang’a and boost it with some money. Some Murang’a MPs opposed to Dr Ruto said they were not aware of the rally as it was organised by his supporters. POLITICAL RALLY They also and claimed that the prayer rally was a political rally in disguise and is aimed at installing Dr Ruto as Mt Kenya’s favourite. Central Region County Assemblies Forum representative Charles Mwangi claimed the rally was a ploy to install Dr Ruto as the region’s kingpin. “There was nothing like a prayer rally. To me, that was a plan to install the deputy president as the region’s kingpin while we know that the President (Uhuru Kenyatta) is our spokesman,” he said. MPs Nduati Ngugi (Gatanga), Ruth Mwaniki (Kigumo), Muturi Kigano (Kangema) and Peter Kimari (Mathioya) said were not privy with the meeting while leaders allied to Dr Ruto including the host Mary Waithira (Maragua), Alice Wahome (Kandara) and Mr Nyoro have been aware of the meeting. POWERFUL FORCES Leaders who spoke with the Nation in confidence said the meeting was cancelled after powerful forces warned Mt Kenya MPs and the clergy to call it off as it is tantamount to disrespecting President Kenyatta who is the region’s kingpin. “Powerful forces are to be blamed for the cancellation of the meeting as clergy and political leaders have been warned against escorting Dr Ruto to Mt Kenya which is Mr Kenyatta’s “political bedroom”. In fact expect more to come,” a source told the Nation. However, Mr Ngugi told the Nation that the meeting had to be called off since people would not have come out to welcome Tanga Tanga. “Tanga Tanga is losing ground and they must have learnt this [and called off] the political rally. I believe they also have people on the ground who have told them that they are not welcome in the region,” said the Gatanga MP. TAME DP However, political analysts have interpreted the move as an “effort to tame the deputy president and his people from intruding into the President’s backyard without his outright knowledge and permission”. Mr Maina Wanja said President could be keen on putting his house in order and must have had a hand in the rally’s cancellation. “The President has been mocked and disrespected enough times by the leaders in Mt Kenya region. The recent appointments of leaders who opposed Tanga Tanga members and the two time cancellation of the prayer rally in the region speak volumes,” he said. Efforts to reach Bishop Maina of the Full Time Winners Gospel Church for comments on the reasons of the cancellation of the rally did not bear fruit as he did not respond to our calls and text message.   Organisers say rally put off as Ruto will not be available on Saturday.