In the field of interior design, the use of glass has gained popularity over the years in the Kenyan corporate sector. There are numerous types of glass that can be found in the market that ensure there is versatility and flexibility in its use. Many corporate buildings in Kenya are opting to use unique glass treated options for their interiors in an effort to give their offices a unique appearance. Huzaifa Hameed, Smart Glass Industries Ltd director, walks us through different types of glass that can be used in the finishing and partitions of a corporate building. FROSTED GLASS This is one of the most popular types in corporate buildings. This type of glass has been processed to have the appearance of a milky translucent surface. “Frosted glass comes in handy for clients who want to ensure some form of privacy among the members sharing the space. Due to its translucent surface, frosted glass provides privacy to its interiors while at the same time allowing light transmission, thus providing two services simultaneously,” says Hameed. SMART GLASS This type of glass is designed in such a manner that it can turn from clear and opaque states on demand, and provides unprecedented control over the amount of light, privacy and heat that enters a space. “Many buildings are adapting the use of the smart glass because of its efficiency. Additionally, windows that use switchable smart glass do not need blinds, shades or other window treatments, thus providing unobstructed views for the occupants,” notes Hameed. He adds that some companies even offer effects that can transform glass windows, showrooms and other glass surface into dramatic video displays. “Smart glass is ideal for commercial, institutional, and residential spaces as it can be manipulated into providing unlimited colour options and clarity, and it is extremely durable,” opines Hameed. TOUGHENED GLASS Toughened glass has undergone intense heating, through which its tenacity and strength is increased. “Toughened glass can be found in most corporate buildings today. While the glass can be used with a variety of frames professionally installed, many people are now opting to instal the glass in frameless form within their buildings,” says Hameed. He notes that frameless toughened doors, and mostly the sliding door types, are widely used in industrial buildings as well as schools and even homes. LAMINATED Fabrika is another type of glass that can be used in commercial buildings. It is a laminated glass product with beautiful fabrics encapsulated inside, mostly used in a decorative manner to give the building a spark of life. “Fabrika glass is used to create a dramatic feature in interior applications such as partitions, screens, doors, and furniture. When combined with either a back-painted glass or mirrored glass, the overall effect is stunning and is an inspired solution for wall cladding,” says Hameed. “The fabric that is sandwiched between the laminated glass is of a wide range, dependent on the client’s specifications. This can include the use of traditional fabric (kitenge) among others,” he adds. HEATED GLASS There is also the decorative glass which comes in several types and shapes depending on the clients’ preferences. Decorative glass is heated glass that is then shaped into different designs. Some of the decorative glass may be stained others clear. Most of the time, decorative glass is used in the main entrance of buildings but can also be used in other parts such as windows and small partitions. “The use of decorative glass satisfies privacy needs in the building and gives the building a unique feel, as this type is used more as statement pieces,” says Hameed. TINTED Another common glass in the corporate market is the reflective glass (also referred to as the tinted mirrors). Many Kenyans are wary about using glass products in their buildings and constructions for the fear that they may be easily destroyed. However, according to Hameed, it is important to realise that there are many technological advancements that have made glass a durable product in the construction industry. “While most Kenyans are hesitant to use glass products, some seem to have embraced the new trends of using glass as partitions and doors in commercial buildings,” says Hameed, adding that the purchase and installation prices depend on client’s needs.  