Students of the Kenya Medical Training College (KMTC) have marched in the streets of Nakuru protesting over alleged grabbing of the institution’s land by a private developer. The students, who Tuesday marched from their college located near the Nakuru Level Five Hospital to the county government offices, said that they would lose the college land, which they use for practicals, if the developer is not stopped. They said part of the field, which doubles as a playground, has already been fenced off and a structure is being erected. APPEAL TO GOVERNOR “We want the governor to address our issues since we don’t have anywhere to rest after classes. Even the students’ leadership was not involved in the construction plan. Also our school administrators are not aware of the construction,” one of the students said. But some sources told Daily Nation that it is the Nakuru Level Five Hospital that is planning to build an oncology centre near the institution. Yet other sources said a private developer is behind the building of the centre with the aim of tapping into the many cancer patients who may not receive treatment at the Nakuru Level Five Hospital due to lack of enough machines while the few that are there are overwhelmed by the high number of patients drawn from the five surrounding counties. MEETING Deputy Governor Erick Korir addressed the students, telling them that a meeting with county officials and KMTC officials will be held in a bid to resolve the issue. “The county government will discuss with the national government so that we can reach an amicable solution,” the deputy governor said. The Nakuru County Health CEC Gichuki Kariuki told the Daily Nation that the land has not been grabbed and accused some people he did not name of inciting the students. Dr Kariuki said that the 23-hectares piece of land that accommodates both the Nakuru hospital and the training college is under one title deed and so it is impossible that part of it could have been sold to anyone. “The parcel of land belongs to the government and has been set aside for the construction of a radiotherapy facility. The project that is estimated to cost about Sh500,000, is a collaboration between the national government and the county government. The students must have been incited by a people who do not understand that this is government land," said Dr Gichuki. He said that the facility intended to be built there, and whose plan was done several years back, will serve eight counties.  