Q. I have resigned twice from the company I was working for as a cashier. The first was when I left to look after my three-months’ old baby. I re-applied for the job when he turned a year old. Thankfully, they rehired me. I later resigned again last year to start my own business but it is not going as well as I had hoped. I am considering re-applying for a job once again but I embarrassed. Please advise me.  You are one of a kind. I like your spirit. I like that you are not just focused on your goals, but you prioritise them. In this era where many parents leave their children to be raised by nannies as they go back to school, you chose to leave your job to take care of your baby. And not just that, you must be a diligent employee because not many employers have room for boomerang employees. You will not be the first person to resign to start a business only to return to fulltime employment and get hired. Well-meaning employees do it all the time and many employers tend to respect those who leave to pursue their goals than many who stay put with unfulfilled dreams compounded by minimal productivity. There are new skills you have acquired in that one year of hustling that would be useful to a potential employer. From planning, to influencing, pitching, networking to budgeting and building business relationships. Not forgetting since you know how tough it can get out there, you will be loyal and give any role your very best. You have learned some lessons on what it means and takes to be a business owner, so you are likely to embrace your job from a different perspective and be better at safeguarding your employer’s interest. Spread your wings and be bold, do not just think about your former employer - same old job, salary, environment and colleagues who are likely to mock your return. You have skills that may interest other employers, so look beyond. You have a good chance of relaunching your career at a higher role with more responsibilities if you package your new experience competitively. No experience is wasted, we learn how to be better at what we do, and what to avoid if we expect a better result. You took a bold step to be your own employer despite knowing you had naysayers rooting for your failure. You have a flair for spontaneity and are therefore not likely to stay long in your next job. Try all possible options.   As an introvert you have qualities that are admirable.