Ulinzi Warriors ended their campaign in first leg of Kenya Basketball Federation men’s Premier League with two consecutive victories at Nyayo National Stadium Gymnasium at the weekend. On Sunday, the soldiers completed their 11-match programme with a deserved 64-39 win over Lakeside from Kisumu. On Saturday, Khaemba Situma scored 17 points while John Washika added 13 to help the Kenya Defence Forces side shoot down Eldonets 65-44. Ulinzi coach William Balozi said: “I am satisfied with the performance. It keeps us right up their on the table top as we plot for our second leg run. In Mombasa, Kenya Ports Authority defeated stubborn Umoja 60-43 at their Makande hall. Umoja took a 9-05 first quarter lead but the home side rallied to get ahead 23-17 at the break. Victor Odendo, Brian Ochola, Job Byron and Gerry Wekesa played well for KPA as Nick Ogol and Mike Juma led Umoja’s onslaught. Job Byron was KPA’s top scorer with 14 points while Victor Odendo and Paul Ekiru had 11 and eight points respectively with Nick Ogol contributing 12 for Umoja. In the women’s Premier League, Kenyatta University Oryx rallied from behind to edge out Storms 32-31 at Nyayo. Oryx, who got a 20-0 walkover victory against Kakamega-based Western Delight on Saturday, trailed 31-32 at half-time. In the men’s Division One matches, Barclays Bank defeated Blazers 48-41 in a bruising encounter. The bankers raced to a 17-6 first quarter lead and held on to the end. Zetech University garnered two points when they clobbered Kenya Airports Authority 55-44. Zetech led 25-22 at half-time. At KPA Hall Makande, KPA Youth walloped Footprints 118-22 in their quest for women’s Division One League title in a one-sided affair. The youthful but talented girls, who have been assembled from different schools and colleges in the Coast region to act as a feeder to KPA senior women’s teams, were way above their opponents. Footprints started the first quarter competitively, trailing 12-19 but were overwhelmed in the other quarters.  