The Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be held at the Safari Park hotel in Nairobi on Saturday. Delegates started trooping in at the Sports View Hotel in Kasarani from Thursday afternoon where they will put up before crossing over to Safari Park on Saturday for the meeting. On Friday, National Executive Committee (NEC) members from each of the eight regions - Central, Eastern, North Eastern, Coast, Rift Valley, Nyanza, Western and Nairobi - will first hold a consultative meeting before each NEC member leads delegates from his region to meet FKF President, Nick Mwendwa. Mwendwa will then meet with representatives of the National Super League (NSL), Division One and Women Premier League (WPL) clubs and thereafter Kenyan Premier League clubs. In the evening, the National Executive Committee (NEC) will hold the last meeting to strategize for the AGM. ELECTORAL CODE The main agenda up for discussion on the floor on Saturday will be the 26-page electoral code that the current FKF leadership wants ratified and adopted ahead of the elections in December as well as the composition of the electoral board. The document underlines the rules and regulations for anyone seeking to contest for any seat during the election. For starters, the code proposes that anyone seeking to be elected as the federation president must have a running mate. The pair must get support from at least five of the twenty FKF branches and one club from the Kenyan Premier League (KPL), National Super League, Division One league, Women Premier League (WPL) and the Women Division One league. Declaration to support any particular candidate by a branch must be signed by the branch chairman and secretary while club chairmen will sign the declaration for support for anyone wishing to go for the top seat. They must also get clearance from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, present a certificate of good conduct from the Kenya Police as well as tax compliance from the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA). NOMINATION FEE In addition, the two are required to pay a non-refundable nomination fee of Sh400,000 each. Those seeking a National Executive Committee (NEC) post will pay Sh150,000 while those vying for post of county chairman will part with Sh100,000. Among those who have expressed interest in the top seat are former Kenya Football Coaches Association deputy secretary general Hamisi Shivachi, Andrew Amukowa who is a former Western Branch chairman and former Vihiga County Governor Moses Akaranga who is currently the patron of second-tier side Vihiga Bullets. Gor Mahia CEO Lordvick Aduda is also said to be in the race. All people seeking elective posts must have been active in football either as an executive committee member, match official, coach, trainer, technical official, medic, player or administrator in three of the last four years. FKF will also present its activity report, financial report and seek approval for the proposed budget for the next financial year. Delegates for the seventh FKF Annual General Meeting 1. 20 FKF Branches 2. 18 Kenyan Premier League (KPL) clubs 3. Top eight clubs participating in the National Super League (NSL) 4. Top eight clubs participating in the National Division One League 5. One club participating in the Women’s Premier League 6. One representative of the Kenya Footballers Welfare Association 7. One representative of the Kenya Football Coaches Association 8. One representative of the Kenya Football Referees Association  