The Kenyan Premier League (KPL) Round Six saw two walkovers awarded to Bandari and Tusker after Chemelil Sugar and Sony Sugar failed to honour their fixtures in Mombasa and Machakos respectively. Gor Mahia continued their perfect run as Kakamega Homeboyz made light work of Wazito. Kisumu All Stars are still without a win while there were shared spoils in Kericho and Nakuru on Saturday. Here, Nation Sport presents five things we learned from KPL at the weekend: Gor Mahia’s depth will always count ***** Harambee stars defender Joash Onyango and Gor Mahia skipper Kenneth Muguna went AWOL yet Gor Mahia won and kept a clean sheet against a brilliant Kariobangi Sharks side. It would be foolhardy to suggest that their absence was not felt as it took big intervention from David Mapigano for the clean sheet while in midfield Muguna was badly missed until Dickson Ambundo stepped on the pitch. The youngster breathed life into K’Ogalo’sattack and credit to coach Steven Polack after his two other substitutes contributed to the winner. Kennedy Otieno could have stolen the headlines had his volley found the net but it came off the upright and then Francis Afriyie justified his inclusion by scoring. As long as substitutes can have such an impact from the bench, Gor Mahia will always get the job done even on a bad day. That scrappy win served as a timely reminder to the two captains that the team is always bigger than an individual, ask Dennis Oliech! Victory against Chemelil Sugar in their game in hand will send Gor five points clear at the top and with such depth, the title is theirs to lose. Ndikumana, AFC Leopards’ unsung hero ******The last time AFC Leopards had a Burundian in their midfield, he ended up being a big flop. Floribert Ndayisaba arrived at the den in June 2012 from Rayon Sports in a deal rumoured to be in the region of Sh1.3 million but failed to flourish. He was eventually dropped the next year. Seven years later, AFC Leopards fans have something nice to say about Burundi courtesy of Tresor Ndikumana. Like Ndayisaba, Ndikumana came from the Rwandan league where he turned out for Amagaju FC. But six matches into the season, he is already proving Ingwe’s best buy in the off season. Coach Andre Casa Mbungo has struggled to fill the void left by Duncan Ochieng’ having tried out Robinson Kamura, David “Cheche” Ochieng’, Said Tsuma and Victor Majid without success. But in Ndikumana, he has a modern defensive midfielder who can tackle, open up play and pass. His ability to read the game and make interceptions has brought stability at the back and it’s no surprise that third-placed AFC Leopards is the best defensive team having conceded only two goals. He showed his box to box qualities with a good strike that just flew wide after beating Samuel Odhiambo but having opened his account against Western Stima, Ingwe fans can expect more goals from the Burundian. The glorified mess that is Wazito ****** At this point of the season, the expectation from Wazito owner Ricardo Badoer was that they would be league leaders or in worst case scenario somewhere in the top three. But six matches into the season, the moneybags are nowhere close to the top. After an unrivalled spending spree in the transfer window, the KPL returnees have nothing to show for it. They sit just three points above the relegation zone, with a negative goal difference and even more worrying is there were no positives to pick from the 4-2 loss to Kakamega Homeboyz. Johnstone Omurwa had to take matters into his own hands to plant respect on the scoreline after their defence was left in shambles by a fluid Homeboyz side. Already their poor start has cost head coach Fred Ambani and technical director Stanley Okumbi their jobs.   Amid all this confusion and disappointments, you get the feeling that Wazito should have spent a good part of their fortune to invest in an astute technical bench given their lofty ambitions. And with Badoer’s patience waning, expect more episodes from the circus that is Wazito. There will be more departures in December this time from the playing unit. Kenyan football poorer without Sony Sugar ****** It’s worrying that Sony Sugar are on the brink of relegation after handing over another walkover at the weekend. Sources close to the club indicate the Awendo based outfit is as good as relegated as the financial crisis continues to bite. With things not looking any better in Awasi where Chemelil Sugar failed to raise funds for the trip to Mombasa, fans from the sugar belt will be starved of KPL action for the first time in over two decades. But the looming relegation of the Millers will also be a big blow to Kenyan football specifically Sony Sugar which has been a breeding ground for football talent in South Nyanza. Noah Abich, Jockins Atudo, Ali Abondo, Enock Agwanda, Samuel Onyango, Fred Ajwang stand out as some of the top talents that have passed through Awendo before featuring for the national team. Tobias Otieno, Abdalla Wankuru, Daniel Otieno, Timothy Odhiambo, Kevin “Saha” Omondi and Stephen Onyango are some of the latest products from the Awendo mills of football talent. Where will the next generation of South Nyanza football talent be groomed? Money talks! Pay and Otenga will win *******For the umpteenth time, Kisumu All Stars lost at home. Otenga are second from bottom after six matches, their only point coming on the road. Their 2-1 loss to Mathare United told the tale of a side lacking inspiration, motivation and crucially purpose. After Gershom Arabe scored the opener, there was a sense of excitement in Kisumu that the Blue Eagles would finally fly. But they withered terribly thereafter, conceding two goals in the space of three minutes to surrender their lead and succumb to their fourth consecutive loss. Henry Omino’s credentials as a coach have come under scrutiny following Otenga’s slump but the truth is that results will only improve when his playing unit is appreciated by the management. The county government of Kisumu needs to pay their salaries and in good time. However, if status quo remains not even the great Sam Allardyce can help Kisumu All Stars escape relegation.  