There are 118,658 registered voters in Kibra constituency, Nairobi County, the IEBC has announced in a Gazette notice, amid preparations for the by-election on November 7. The notice dated October 25 and signed by Mr Wafula Chebukati, chairman of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, said revision of the voters' register had been completed following a voter verification exercise. The IEBC said Laini Saba has 17,455 voters, Lindi 16,688, Makina 25,695, Woodley/ Kenyatta Golf Course 28,066 and Sarangombe 30,754. The Orange Democratic Movement (ODM), whose leader is Mr Raila Odinga, earlier said it needed scrutinise he register so that supporters are not kept from voting because of missing names. And during a rally in the area on Sunday, Suna East MP Junet Mohamed said they will march to Anniversary Towers, where the offices of the IEBC are, if they do not get the list of all presiding officers and clerks before Tuesday. CAMPAIGNS ODM, Jubilee Party, Ford Kenya and Amani National Congress all campaigned in Kibra on Sunday, with a little over a week left to the mini poll. The parties' candidates are Bernard Imran Okoth, McDonald Mariga, Khamisi Butichi and Eliud Owalo respectively. ODM leaders said they were certain about a win but Deputy President William Ruto said only Jubilee and Mr Mariga can change the constituency. Kibra has in the past been plagued by election violence, poverty and lack of proper housing. The by-election follows the death of MP Ken Okoth in July after a long battle with colon cancer. Those who support the ODM candidate say he had been working on development alongside his brother, the late MP Okoth. JUBILEE'S PLANS Lang’ata MP Nixon Korir, who has been Jubilee's campaigns, said focus now switches to door-to-door campaigns as they prepare for the last rally on Sunday at DC grounds in Kibra. “We expect all our party leaders to be around unless their schedules do not allow [sic]," he said. The first time lawmaker exuded confidence Mr Mariga will win as ODM has "no clear agenda" for the people. He accused ODM of violence, saying that on Sunday, the party ensured Mr Owalo did not hold his rally at Kamukunji grounds. He also claimed the party disrupted Mr Butichi's rally at Bukhungu grounds. “This proves they do not have any agenda for Kibra. It is shocking that Raila is asking residents to consider a vote for Imran as a vote for him. Who is vying - him or Imran? "If he did not change Kibra in 25 years age when he was the MP, what new thing will he do now? We are going for a clear win." ODM'S PLANS The orange party said it it will meet communities and reach out to women on its last rally at Joseph Kang’ethe grounds in Woodley. Makadara MP George Aladwa said the party and its supporters will march to Anniversary Towers on Tuesday to compel the electoral agency to provide the list of presiding officers and clerks. “We have given them up to 5pm to communicate the same through their returning officer in Kibra, failure of which the march is on,” said Mr Aladwa, who doubles up as ODM's Nairobi branch chairman. He, however, refuted claims of being behind Sunday’s, saying ODM was also carrying out investigations. “We had agreed that we would be at Bukhungu grounds until noon and that Ford Kenya would take over at 2pm but this was not honoured. We don’t know if somebody had a hidden agenda." Mr Butichi said they filed a complaint with both the IEBC and police for action to be taken against ODM, which he insisted disrupted his meeting. “We had authorisation to hold a rally at Bukhungu but ODM leaders stormed in and caused chaos. It is now up to the IEBC to make a decision,” he said. He added that his door-to-door campaigns which will end in a rally at Lindi grounds on Sunday.  