Somalia has summoned the Kenyan ambassador to Mogadishu after accusing Kenya of violating its airspace, amid soaring relations between the neighbour countries over a maritime border dispute. Lt Gen (Rtd) Lucas Tumbo was summoned by Somali State Minister Mr Abdulkadir Ahmed-Kheri Abdi who handed him a protest note demanding an explanation over the said incident on October 5 when an aircraft flew from Nairobi directly to Kismayu without official permission from Mogadishu. “Somalia strongly protest this violation and will not accept any encroachment on its air, sea and land borders, and calls on Kenya to respond to this breach while its troops stationed in the lower Jubba region are part of the African Union Mission in Somalia (Amisom),” reads the statement. Somalia describes the action as a contradiction of all principles of good neighbourliness and non-interference in the internal affairs of state. KISMAYU On October 5, Kenyan-registered Fokker 50 plane, 5Y-JXJ, carrying politicians, landed in Kismayu, the capital of Jubbaland state without making a stop over in Mogadishu as required. A month earlier Somalia imposed a direct flight restriction to Kismayu in a bid to stop a controversial inauguration ceremony of Jubbaland president Ahmed Madobe. Mr Madobe's re-election victory in August was endorsed by Nairobi but rejected by Mogadishu. The Fokker 50 plane was carrying former Somali state presidents Sharif Hassan Aden of Southwest and Galmudug's Abdikarim Hussein Guled. Several Somali MPs were also on board heading to Kismayu ahead of the planned swearing-in ceremony of Madobe. DISPUTE Mogadishu says it annulled the August poll in which Madobe won, although Jubbaland argues there is no legal basis to interfere with elections in a federal state. It is not clear why and how the aircraft, leased by Jubba Airways, managed to violate the flight restrictions. This week, Mogadishu had indicated it could relax the limitations from next week as long as no swearing in took place. Jubba Airways, which operates between Somalia and Kenya, is owned by Kenyan and Somali politicians and businessmen. This grievance comes amid already strained relations between Nairobi and Mogadishu over the maritime border dispute, which is being heard at the UN's International Court of Justice.  