The Interior ministry has dismissed as as "false and misleading", reports that the grave of freedom fighter Dedan Kimathi has been found at Kamiti Maximum Security Prison. It was reported on Friday that the site where the Mau Mau hero was buried had been found, 62 years ago after he was executed by the colonial government on February 18, 1957. The reports were attributed to Evelyn Wanjugu Kimathi, Chief Executive Officer of the Dedan Kimathi Foundation. Via Twitter on Saturday afternoon, however, the ministry said, "Our attention has been drawn to news on some platforms that the grave of our freedom fighter Field Marshal Dedan Kimathi has been found at Kamiti Prison. "Please note these claims are FALSE; such info will be relayed to the public only via our official communication channels." FAMILY FIRM But Ms Wanjugu Kimathi stood by the statement. "It is a true statement. The family is the one who released the statement. It is not the government," she told AFP when reached by phone Saturday. The ministry was "surprised" because they were not aware or involved in the family's activities in trying to find the grave, she added. "We, the family, are the ones that went to Kamiti Prison and were able to find the place he was buried in an unidentified grave." A video posted on the foundation's Twitter page showed supporters singing and dancing around Kimathi's widow, who has long urged Kenya's government to help find her husband's remains. Her daughter said the family had been celebrating. "They are very happy. Others are crying," Ms Wanjugu said. She said they had asked the Chief Justice David Maraga for permission to exhume the remains from beneath the prison, and were ready "to work hand in hand with the government". DNA SAMPLES The foundation's CEO, the youngest girl in the family, earlier said they were ready to give samples for DNA tests. “Our elder sister Grace is ready to have her DNA samples taken to prove that the remains are our father's. We want the whole world to know the truth,” Ms Wanjugu said. “He was a hero ... that is why we are calling on the government to ensure he is given an honourable send-off. If this is done, the wish of our mother and other freedom fighters will become a reality." In September, the family launched a passionate appeal for the government to help them exhume the remains for a proper burial. Before then, Mrs Kimathi had asked the government to take seriously the mission to locate the gravesite. PREPARATIONS Meanwhile, following the reports on Friday, the hero's family said it had prepared a site at their Kinangop home in Nyandarua County for a decent burial. Widow Mukami Kimathi, 88, said she had made the preparations at her Njabi home. She said she had always wished to give her husband a decent burial. “It has been a long journey for us as a family but we are glad that we have finally located the place where the father of my children and freedom fighter was buried," she said. "I am glad that one of my wishes has come true." EXHUMATION The family asked relevant authorities to give them orders to exhume the remains. “All I want is for the remains to come home [sic]. My wish is for the government to make this a reality," Mrs Kimathi said on Saturday. "My husband fought for the freedom of this country. It would only be wise to give him a decent send-off." She also called on the government to ensure other freedom fighters get land and live decent lives.  