The tug-of-war between the Ministry of Sports and Football Kenya Federation took an interesting twist on Wednesday as Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia and Football Kenya Federation (FKF) issued conflicting reports regarding the fate of the women’s national football team. A circular signed by FKF’s CEO Barry Otieno was sent out stating that Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed had promised to get the budget for the women’s national team, the Harambee Starlets approved, and that she had directed that the team return to training on Thursday. “Following numerous engagements with the Cabinet Secretary for Sports, Ambassador Amina Mohamed, the government has directed that Harambee Starlets report for residential training camp tomorrow, ahead of the team’s Olympic qualifier against Zambia. “The CS has also assured the federation that budgetary requests regarding the team’s upcoming fixtures against Zambia will be met,” the FKF statement read in part. Kenya will play Zambia in Nairobi on November 8 paving way for the rematch of their two-legged 2020 Tokyo Olympics qualifiers in Lusaka four days later. ACT OF BLACKMAIL But speaking from France where he was attending a UNESCO conference on anti-doping, PS Kaberia said this position was an act of blackmail from FKF to arm twist the ministry to agree to their demands. “That is pure blackmail. What we have agreed as a ministry is to allow the girls to be accommodated at Stadion Hotel and to train at the Kasarani Stadium because both facilities are owned by government. “In the meantime, we have asked the federation to furnish us with some documents, including the names of the travelling contingent. “I have checked and confirmed that the requisition from FKF was made on November 16, and it has to go through normal government procedure before it can be approved. The board is yet to even review the budget,” he said. This war of words comes just one day after FKF president Nick Mwendwa called a press conference and heaped blame on Kaberia, accusing him of deliberately blocking funding for national football teams. Kaberia had issued a strong rebuttal accusing Mwendwa of, among other things, refusing to account for the public funds given to them over the last two years.  